alpha-catenin inhibits beta-catenin signaling by preventing formation of a beta-catenin*T-cell factor*DNA complex.
A binary complex of birch profilin and skeletal muscle actin could be isolated by gel chromatography.
Abnormal immunoreactivity in the tumor tissue was observed in 18 patients (34.0%) for E-cadherin, in 35 (66.0%) for alpha-catenin, in 20 (37.7%) for beta-catenin, and in 37 (69.8%) for gamma-catenin.
Absence of alpha-syntrophin leads to structurally aberrant neuromuscular synapses deficient in utrophin.
Abundance of actin, talin, alpha 5 and beta 1 integrins, pp125 focal adhesion kinase, and alpha-catenin is not affected by the differential calreticulin expression.
Acanthamoeba actin and profilin can be cross-linked between glutamic acid 364 of actin and lysine 115 of profilin.
Acanthamoeba profilin affects the mechanical properties of nonfilamentous actin.
Acanthamoeba profilin has similar but weaker effects on muscle actin, requiring 5 to 10 times more profilin than with amoeba actin.
Acanthamoeba profilin strongly inhibits in a concentration-dependent fashion the rate and extent of Acanthamoeba actin polymerization in 50 mM KCl.
Acanthamoeba profilin was cross-linked to actin via a zero-length isopeptide bond using carbodiimide.
Accordingly, beta-catenin is also found in these structures, again in the absence of alpha-catenin.
A chimera consisting of the alpha-catenin-binding region of beta-catenin linked to the amino terminus of alpha-catenin 57-264 behaves as a monomer in solution, as expected, since beta-catenin binding disrupts the alpha-catenin dimer.
Acidic domain of the phosphoprotein (P) of vesicular stomatitis virus differentially interacts with homologous and heterologous nucleocapsid protein (N).
A common feature of these talin-positive domains is the deep membrane infoldings, where bundles of actin filaments are inserted into the membrane.
A core activity associated with the N terminus of the yeast RAD52 protein is revealed by RAD51 overexpression suppression of C-terminal rad52 truncation alleles.
ActA appears to control at least four functions that collectively lead to actin-based motility: (1) initiation of actin polymerization, (2) polarization of ActA function, (3) transformation of actin polymerization into a motile force and (4) acceleration of movement mediated by the host protein profilin.
Actin-binding proteins such as profilin and gelsolin bind to phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4,5-bisphosphate (PI 4,5-P2) and regulate the concentration of monomeric actin.
Actin-binding proteins such as profilins participate in the restructuration of the actin cytoskeleton in plant cells.
Actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF) and cofilin define a family of actin-binding proteins essential for the rapid turnover of filamentous actin in vivo.
Actin expression was reduced by 25-50%, relative to that of myosin heavy chain, in smooth muscle of KO mice, without any change in the relative distribution of the actin isoforms.
We conclude that the faster Vus of smooth muscle of the KO mouse is consistent with, but does not prove without further study, physiological regulation of the crossbridge cycle by calponin.
Actin isoforms from different species were also compared, and the effect of profilin on the thermal stability of actin was studied.
[Activation induces dephosphorylation of cofilin (an actin/PIP2-binding protein) and its translocation to plasma membranes in leukocytes].
Active, Ser133-phosphorylated CREB effects transcription of CRE-dependent genes via interaction with the 265-kDa co-activator protein CREB-binding-protein, CBP, which bridges the CRE/CREB complex to components of the basal transcriptional apparatus.
Actophorin and profilin have opposite effects on the rate of exchange of nucleotide bound to actin monomers.
Additional studies demonstrated the gamma-catenin distribution to be remarkably similar to that of beta-catenin, whereas alpha-catenin staining was more diffuse in the cytoplasm of airway epithelial and gland bud cells.
Addition of Acanthamoeba profilin in molar ratios to actin of about 1.1:1 and 2.3:1 retarded the initial kinetics of assembly (induced by addition of 2mM Mg+2) and reduced the fraction of actin incorporated into filaments.
Addition of profilin to polymerized actin causes it to depolymerize until a new steady-state, dependent on profilin concentration, is achieved.
Addition of EGTA (3 mM) to the extracellular media completely inhibited the cleavage of actin-binding protein, talin, and pp60src in response to A23187 (1 microM).
Adherens junction proteins (N-cadherin, E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, plakoglobin, and actin) and the proliferation marker Ki-67 were localized in the cultures by fluorescence microscopy, and in vitro wound healing was compared.
A distinct modulating domain in glucocorticoid receptor monomers in the repression of activity of the transcription factor AP-1.
ADP-ribosylation of actin at Arg 177 by Clostridium perfringens iota toxin increased the nucleotide dissociation rate from 2.2 x 10(-3) s-1 to 4.5 x 10(-3) s-1 without affecting the profilin-induced stimulation of nucleotide exchange.
After 24 or 48 hours of shear, staining for VE-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin was intense and peripheral, forming a band of "dashes" (adherens plaques) that colocalized with the ends of stress fibers that inserted along the lateral membranes of cells.
After digestion of the 60 kDa fragment with cyanogen bromide, the N-terminal 21-amino acid sequence of one of the resulting peptides was found to show sequence similarity to a region near the actin-binding site (amino acid residues 260-281) of yeast fimbrin.
After elution of the three actin-binding proteins, actin and profilin were recovered from the DNase I column with 2 M urea solution.
After in vitro labelling of isolated rat liver nuclei, the following ADP-ribosylated and unmodified histones were identified by HPLC and gel electrophoresis: histone H1(0), four histone H1 subfractions, histone H2A.1, histone H2A.2, oxidized histone H2A.2, histone H2A.X, histone H2A.Z, histone H2B, three histone H3 variants and histone H4.
A further outcome of this study is that the actin filament core bundles in microvilli of chicken pigment epithelial cells are presumed to contain a crosslinking protein, which is not immunologically related to either villin, fimbrin or myosin I of the intestinal brush border.
A highly significant correlation was observed between the loss of expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and gamma-catenin, but not beta-catenin, with increased TNM stage (p <0.05).
AIMS: To investigate the disturbance of intercellular adhesion in adenoid cystic carcinoma (ACC), we examined the ultrastructural localization of E-cadherin (E-cad), alpha-catenin (alpha-cat) and beta-catenin (beta-cat) in ACC, and compared it with that in the normal labial gland.
Aip1p interacts with cofilin to disassemble actin filaments.
Aip1p localizes to cortical actin patches in yeast cells, and this localization is disrupted by specific actin and cofilin mutations.
A LIMK2 mutant with replacement of threonine 505 by valine abolished LIMK2 activities for cofilin phosphorylation and actin cytoskeletal changes, whereas replacement by glutamate enhanced the protein kinase activity and stress fiber formation by LIMK2.
All of the experimental data were quantitatively accounted for on the basis of a 1:1 complex between profilin and monomeric actin with a Kr between 4 and 9 microM, the same value obtained previously in the absence of MgCl2.
All these results suggest that cofilin is a new type of actin-associated protein.
Although binding patterns of different sera were not identical, almost all sera caused IgG binding to platelet components of 87-90 kD, 140 kD (identified as vinculin) and 220-240 kD (tentatively identified as talin and actin-binding protein).
Although both receptors are involved in M21 and H2981 cell adhesion to vitronectin, only a alpha v beta 3 can be detected in focal contacts, colocalizing with vinculin, talin, and the ends of actin filaments, while alpha v beta 5 shows a distinct, nonfocal contact, distribution on the cell surface.
Although profilin released actin at the appropriate time to stimulate actin assembly during exposure to chemoattractants, the concentration of profilin in PMN was insufficient to explain the high unpolymerized actin content in unstimulated PMN and the quantity of actin released from profilin too small to account for the large shifts from unpolymerized to polymerized actin associated with maximal chemoattractant stimulation.
Although talin has been suggested to act as a linkage protein mediating the attachment of GPIIb-IIIa to actin filaments, direct binding of GPIIb-IIIa to this cytoskeletal protein has not been demonstrated.
Although co-localization of glucokinase with actin filaments was not clearly demonstrated in the pancreatic beta-cell line MIN6, islet glucokinase was found to be present in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm, though predominantly in the nucleus.
Although neither activation of BCK1 (MEKK) by the dominant BCK1-20 mutation nor increased dosage of MKK1 (MEK) or MPK1 (MAP kinase) mimicked PKC1 as a glc7-10 dosage suppressor, extra copies of genes encoding upstream components of the Pkc1p pathway such as ROM2, RHO2, HCS77/WSC1/SLG1 and MID2 also suppressed glc7-10 effectively.
Although platelets contain only 1 profilin for every 5-10 actin molecules, these complex reactions may allow substoichiometric profilin to have an important influence on actin assembly.
Although striated myotubules were identified within the urethra by hematoxylin and eosin staining starting on postnatal day 1, striated muscle myosin heavy chain protein was absent in the embryonic and neonatal development of the sphincter, and it was expressed only in the mature myotubule of adults.
alpha-Smooth muscle actin was expressed throughout the urethral sphincter of embryonic and neonatal animals.
Although the chemical basis of these results is not known, they indicate that profilin can tightly sequester actin monomers and support the earlier suggestion that the affinity of profilin for actin may be under metabolic control.
A major point of interest was to clarify whether rheological, high precision measurements can yield quantitative information about the influence of talin and vinculin on the structure, chain dynamics, elasticity and viscoelasticity of actin filaments with time.
A model is proposed for the function of profilin in actin-based motility.
mDia binds profilin likely to promote actin polymerization.
MSH2 plays a fundamental role in mispair recognition whereas MSH3 and MSH6 appear to modify the specificity of this recognition.
Munc18-2 is a Sec1 homologue enriched in epithelial cells and forms a complex with syntaxin 3, a t-SNARE localized to the apical plasma membrane.
Analyses of beta-catenin or E-cadherin immunoprecipitates from BMMC lysate revealed that alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and E-cadherin were co-precipitated, suggesting that E-cadherin and catenins form a complex in mast cells.
Analyses of dynamic light scattering data by stretched exponential fit show that vinculin has a negligible influence on internal actin filament dynamics and actin bending stiffness which contrasts with our previous observations with talin, another actin and vinculin-binding protein from focal adhesions.
Analysis of profilin: actin crystals reveals an extensive intermolecular network, rather than a discrete "monomeric complex", comprising stacked actin ribbons held in place by columns of profilin molecules, wedged in between neighboring actin subunits and running perpendicular to the ribbons.
Analysis of changes in state suggests that SIR1 protein has a role in the establishment but not the maintenance of repression of silent mating type genes, whereas SIR2, SIR3, and SIR4 are required for maintenance.
Analysis of the formation of the calf spleen complex in the presence of varying concentrations of divalent cations gave evidence for the presence of a high-affinity divalent-cation-binding site on the spleen actin (beta, gamma) which appears to regulate the interaction with profilin.
Analysis of the u.v. absorbance and far-u.v. circular dichroism spectra of profilin and actin did not reveal any major changes in the conformation of the proteins accompanying the modifications at the C-terminal ends.
Analysis of this product by peptide mapping (Sutoh (1982) Biochemistry 21, 3654-3661) showed that cofilin was cross-linked with the N-terminal segment of actin containing residues 1-12.
Analysis of V3, a hamster equivalent of SCID, indicates that the protein level increases of RAD51 and RAD52 from G0 to G1/S/G2 do not require DNA-PK.
Analysis of various truncated alpha-catenin molecules revealed that amino-terminal residues 48-163 are able to bind to beta-catenin and plakoglobin.
An assembly of the UL5 and UL52 subunits retains both enzymic activities, and the UL8 protein has been implicated in modulating these functions, facilitating efficient nuclear uptake of the complex and interacting with other viral DNA replication proteins.
An association was seen between E-cadherin and alpha-catenin expression, in both effusions and solid tumours, and for beta-catenin in solid tumours (range p<0. 001 to p=0.014).
An atomic model of actin filaments cross-linked by fimbrin and its implications for bundle assembly and function.
An oligomeric form of simian virus 40 large T-antigen is immunologically related to the cellular tumor antigen p53.
Another cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p27KIP1, and cyclin D increased slightly, whereas proliferating cell nuclear antigen and p130 remained unchanged.
A null mutation of the actin gene (ACT1) is lethal, but null mutations in the tropomyosin (TPM1), fimbrin (SAC6), Abp1p (ABP1), and capping protein (CAP1 and CAP2) genes have relatively mild or no effects.
ORC1, ORC4 and Cdc6 were stable (T1/2 >2 h) and associated with a chromatin-containing fraction throughout the cell cycle.
A portion of glucokinase appeared to be co-localized with actin filaments in the cytoplasm of cultured rat hepatocytes incubated with 25 mM glucose.
A pre-treatment of cells with SGE from partially fed ticks in amounts corresponding to 1 or 3 salivary glands increased the level of both viral nucleocapsid (N) protein and phosphoprotein (P) in a dose-dependent manner.
Aprotinin inhibited platelet aggregation induced by thrombin (0.25 U.ml-1) with IC50 200 kIU.ml-1, and inhibited the rise of cytosolic free calcium concentration in platelets stimulated by thrombin (0.1 U.ml-1) in the absence and in the presence of Ca2+ 0.5 mmol.L-1 (IC50 117 and 50 kIU.ml-1, respectively), but had no effect on the amounts of actin and myosin heavy chain associated with cytoskeletons.
RAD51, RAD52, and RAD54 encode proteins that are critical to the repair of double-strand DNA breaks by homologous recombination.
RAD51, RAD52, RAD57, and RAD59 were required for efficient gap repair using either chromosomal or plasmid donors.
RAD51, RAD54, RAD55 and RAD57 are all required to facilitate strand invasion into otherwise inaccessible donor sequences.
RAD51, RAD54, RAD55 and RAD57 are still required when the same transcribed donor is on the chromosome.
Archaeal histones are most similar to the globular histone fold region of eukaryal histone H4, and the results reported are consistent with archaeal nucleosomes resembling the structure formed by eukaryal histone (H3+H4)2tetramers.
A reconstitution is described that requires not only the growth factor, its receptor with tyrosine kinase activity, and the soluble phospholipase C-gamma 1, but also the small soluble actin-binding protein profilin.
Armadillo (Arm) repeat 10 to the COOH terminus of beta-catenin is involved in binding to CBP, whereas beta-catenin interacts directly with the CREB-binding domain of CBP.
Arp2/3 complex from Acanthamoeba binds profilin and cross-links actin filaments.
As a consequence, in the presence of thymosin beta 4 (T beta 4), low amounts of profilin promote extensive actin assembly off of the pool of actin-T beta 4 complex.
As a nuclear transport signal sequence exists in cofilin and ADF but not in actin, ADF and/or cofilin may be responsible for the nuclear import of actin in myogenic cells under certain conditions.
A series of truncations was carried out at the C terminus of profilin, a region that has been implicated in actin binding.
As expected, C/ATF was found to interact with three domains of CBP including CREB binding domain or kinase-inducible interaction (KIX) domain, the third cysteine-histidine-rich region (CH3 domain) and the nuclear receptor coactivator p160/SRC-1-interacting domain.
As expected from immunofluorescence experiments, Abp1p, cofilin, and actin colocalized in immuno-EM to the dense patchlike structures but not to the cables.
A similar phenotype was seen in testes treated with cytochalasin B and has been noted previously in mutants at the twinstar locus, a gene that encodes a Drosophila member of the cofilin/ADF family of actin-severing proteins.
As previous studies indicated that the RVS161 and RVS167 gene products of Saccharomyces cerevisiae seem to be involved in the same cellular function, we considered the possibility of a complex between the proteins encoded by these two genes.
As shown by in situ hybridization with cloned probes and analysis of in vitro translation products, M. occulta embryos do not accumulate high levels of alpha actin or myosin heavy chain mRNA.
Associations of UBE2I with RAD52, UBL1, p53, and RAD51 proteins in a yeast two-hybrid system.
At least one element of the actin-binding region of human profilin is an alpha-helix.
A truncated beta-catenin disrupts the interaction between E-cadherin and alpha-catenin: a cause of loss of intercellular adhesiveness in human cancer cell lines.
At the light microscope level, brush cells can be identified by antibodies against the actin filament crosslinking proteins villin and fimbrin that not only stain the apical tuft of microvilli and their rootlets, but also label projections emanating from the basolateral surface of these cells.
A two-hybrid-based approach using cofilin and actin mutants identified residues necessary for the interaction of actin, cofilin, and Aip1p in an apparent ternary complex.
BACKGROUND: Although profilin is believed to be an essential regulator of the actin cytoskeleton in most cells, its precise role in mammalian cells remains unknown.
BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Reduced expressions of cell adhesion molecules (E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin) has been reported to be associated with tumor metastasis.
BACKGROUND: p27(Kip1), a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, negatively regulates the G1 phase progression of the cell cycle by binding to the cyclin E/cyclin-dependent kinase 2 complex.
Because beta-catenin is known to interact with alpha-catenin, which binds to actin, we generated a fusion molecule consisting of the ectodomain of E-cadherin and the actin binding site of alpha-catenin.
Because histone H3 shares many structural features with histone H4 and is intimately associated with H4 in the assembled nucleosome, we asked whether H3 has similar functions.
Because both proteins exchange rapidly between actin molecules, low concentrations of profilin can overcome the inhibitory effects of high concentrations of thymosin beta 4 on the nucleotide exchange.
Because other researchers have shown that the RAD51 and RAD52 proteins interact, RAD51 on a high copy number plasmid was tested and found to suppress the rad52-20 allele, but RAD 54, 55 and 57 did not suppress.
Between day 1 and day 3 in culture, the specific synthetic activities of total proteins and of electrophoretically purified myosin heavy chain and actin ([14C] phenylalanine incorporation into protein, in disintegrations per minute per microgram protein) decreased (-19%,-32%, and -73%, respectively).
Binding of talin to actin occurs at a maximal molar ratio of 1:3 as determined by fluorescencetitration under G-buffer conditions.
Binding to human dipeptidyl peptidase IV by adenosine deaminase and antibodies that inhibit ligand binding involves overlapping, discontinuous sites on a predicted beta propeller domain.
Biochemical analyses revealed a strong induction of VEGF-receptor-2 (flk-1/KDR) tyrosine-autophosphorylation by VEGF which was maximal after 5 minutes and was followed by receptor downregulation.
Biochemical complementation experiments also indicate that the PRP9 and PRP11 proteins interact.
Biopsies taken prior to NAC and operative specimens were subjected to immunohistochemical (IHC) staining for alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, E-cadherin, and CD44 isoform 6 (CD44v6), to uncover the role of adhesion molecules as determinants of the response to NAC and disease outcome.
Birch profilin increased the critical concentration required for muscle and brain actin polymerization in a concentration-dependent manner, supporting the notion of the formation of a heterologous complex between the plant protein and animal actin.
Birch pollen profilin and actin can be copurified as a complex, and purified recombinant birch profilin can be used as an affinity matrix to obtain birch pollen actin.
Bistratene A causes phosphorylation of talin and redistribution of actin microfilaments in fibroblasts: possible role for PKC-delta.
MSH3 appears to be more closely related to the mouse Rep-3 gene and other similar eukaryotic mutS homologues than to the yeast gene MSH2 and other mutS homologues that are involved in replication repair.
Neuropilin-1 is also expressed in endothelial cells and shown to bind vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent regulator for vasculogenesis and angiogenesis.
Neuropilin-1 is expressed by endothelial and tumor cells as an isoform-specific receptor for vascular endothelial growth factor.
Neuropilin-1 mediates collapsin-1/semaphorin III inhibition of endothelial cell motility: functional competition of collapsin-1 and vascular endothelial growth factor-165.
Neuropilin 1 (NP-1) is a receptor for vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) 165 (VEGF165) and acts as a coreceptor that enhances VEGF165 function through tyrosine kinase VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR-2).
Neuropilin-1 (NRP1) is a 130-kDa transmembrane receptor for semaphorins, mediators of neuronal guidance, and for vascular endothelial growth factor 165 (VEGF(165)), an angiogenesis factor.
A 2.2-kb truncated NRP1 cDNA was cloned that encodes a 644-aa soluble NRP1 (sNRP1) isoform containing just the a/CUB and b/coagulation factor homology extracellular domains of NRP1.
sNRP1 is secreted by cells as a 90-kDa protein that binds VEGF(165), but not VEGF(121).
Both complexes are composed of N-cadherin and alpha-catenin which bind to either beta-catenin or plakoglobin in a mutually exclusive manner.
Both pathway cells and superior tarsal smooth muscle cells expressed alpha-smooth muscle actin and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain throughout development.
Both types of beads induced the recruitment of N-cadherin, beta-catenin, alpha-catenin and p120, by lateral mobilization of preexisting cell membrane complexes.
Both tyrosine phosphorylation and association of beta-catenin with EGFR were inhibited by tyrphostin, a specific inhibitor of the EGFR tyrosine kinase, whereas dissociation of alpha-catenin from E-cadherin was not.
RAD52 or RAD51 recombination-deficient yeast strains stabilize otherwise unstable YACs containing ribosomal DNA or the human color vision locus (Kohno et al., 1994).
SNF11, a new component of the yeast SNF-SWI complex that interacts with a conserved region of SNF2.
SNF11 interacts with SNF2 in vitro and copurifies with the SNF-SWI complex from yeast cells.
Bud-site selection directs both cell polarity and the cytoskeletal orientation during budding and is determined by at least five genes: BUD1/RSR1, BUD2, BUD3, BUD4 and BUD5.
By 1 h the cells were well spread with straight actin bundles many of which ended at more central sites terminating on patches containing vinculin and talin; thus the cells assemble typical stress fibers but do not appear to polarize.
By analytical ultracentrifugation, rhodamine-labeled profilin binds Arp2/3 complex with a Kd of 7 microM, an affinity intermediate between the low affinity of profilin for barbed ends of actin filaments and its high affinity for actin monomers.
By indirect immunofluorescence, both R. rickettsii and Listeria monocytogenes actin tails were shown to contain the cytoskeletal proteins vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein profilin, vinculin, and filamin.
By site-directed mutagenesis of profilin II from Dictyostelium discoideum the point mutations K114E and W3N were generated by PCR thus changing actin and poly-(L)-proline-binding activity respectively.
By the use of HSV mutants for the UL9 gene we show here that HSV can induce DNA amplification in the absence of lytic viral growth in contrast to replication-negative mutants for either the UL8 or UL52 gene used as control.
By this method, it was shown that four of these large RNA species are polycistronic transcripts containing sequences from two genes: one species contains nucleocapsid protein (NP) and phosphoprotein (P) gene sequences; another, P and membrane protein (M) gene sequences; another, M and fusion protein (F0) gene sequences; and another, F0 and hemagglutinin-neuraminidase protein (HN) gene sequences.
By two-hybrid screening we have identified two partners that directly associate with TIF34: PRT1, a previously characterized eIF3 subunit, and a novel protein of 33 kDa (eIF3-p33) which is part of the eIF3 complex and has an RNA binding domain.
By using a chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, we observed that histone H4, and not histone H3, was acetylated from the endogenous p21/waf1 promoter in vivo, implying that CBP/p300, and not the SAGA complex, was critical in complexing with E2A in up-regulation of p21/waf1 in HTLV-1-infected cells.
Cadherins are essential for embryonic morphogenesis since they mediate calcium-dependent cell-cell adhesion and can modulate beta-catenin signaling.
alpha-catenin links beta-catenin to the actin-based cytoskeleton.
Calculated solution molecular masses are 213 kDa for alpha-catenin, 73 kDa for beta-catenin, and 186 kDa for both.
Calorimetric data show ternary complex formation between talin, vinculin, and actin.
Calpain activity in vivo was determined by observing proteolysis of actin-binding protein and talin, two known substrates of calpain.
Cardiac hypertrophy and the steady state level of the "fetal" genes, ANP, alpha-skeletal actin (alpha-skA), and beta myosin heavy chain (beta-MHC) mRNAs were assessed.
CD26, a T cell activation Ag, also known as dipeptidyl peptidase IV, is directly associated with adenosine deaminase (ADA) on the surface of T cells and T cell lines.
CD26 is a T cell activation antigen known to bind adenosine deaminase and have dipeptidyl peptidase IV activity.
CD26 is a T cell activation antigen that contains dipeptidyl peptidase IV activity and is known to bind adenosine deaminase.
Cells lacking talin, a protein which in many mammalian cell types is a constituent of focal complexes that link the actin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane, are strongly impaired in adhesion to external surfaces.
Cells of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe divide using a medial actomyosin ring that assembles in early mitosis [1].
Cells were fixed and stained with antibodies to vascular endothelial (VE) cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, or plakoglobin.
Changes in beta-catenin binding to cadherin or APC protein, and the ensuing effects on cell morphology and adhesion, are independent of beta-catenin binding to alpha-catenin.
Characterization of actin and poly-L-proline binding sites of Acanthamoeba profilin with monoclonal antibodies and by mutagenesis.
Characterization of a mutant profilin with reduced actin-binding capacity: effects in vitro and in vivo.
Characterization of gelsolin truncates that inhibit actin depolymerization by severing activity of gelsolin and cofilin.
Characterization of MLH1 and MSH2 DNA mismatch repair proteins in cell lines of the NCI anticancer drug screen.
Characterization of the action of porcine brain profilin on actin polymerization.
Characterization of the interactions of alpha-catenin with alpha-actinin and beta-catenin/plakoglobin.
Chemical modification of the cysteine residue 374 of actin, both with N-ethylmaleimide and with the fluorescent probe N-(1-pyrenyl)iodoacetamide, is shown to counteract the inhibiting effect of profilin on actin polymerization.
Chick embryo fibroblasts contain about 75-100 microM unpolymerized actin and at least four proteins which can bind actin monomers, actin depolymerizing factor (ADF), gelsolin, profilin, and thymosin beta4 (Tbeta4).
Class II profilins had higher affinity for poly-l-proline and sequestered more monomeric actin than did class I profilins.
Coexpression of the A8R and A23R genes in Escherichia coli was required for in vitro activity.
cDNA clones of the N, P, and L genes were constructed in pGEM-based expression plasmids and shown to direct expression of the appropriate polypeptides.
Cofilin and profilin may also be involved in the redistribution of actin during myofibrillogenesis and in the process of actin disassembly in degenerating muscles.
Cofilin was identified by peptide sequencing, and cofilin recruitment and Listeria tail length were found to be pH-dependent, in agreement with its recently reported role in enhancing actin filament turnover.
Co-localization of glucokinase with actin filaments.
Compared with control and contralateral kidneys, the ligated kidneys displayed a dynamic expression of mRNAs for many apoptosis-related molecules, which included an up to threefold increase for Fas, Fas ligand, TNF-R1, TRAIL, TRADD, RIP, and caspase-8, and an up to twofold increase for FADD and FAP, but there was little change for FAF.
Complete gene sequences for the nucleocapsid protein (N) and phosphoprotein (P/V) have been determined and recombinant N and V proteins produced in baculovirus.
CONCLUSIONS: The expression of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin is related to histological type and differentiation in NSCLC, although catenins have no independent prognostic value.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest the cooperative modulation of the actin cytoskeleton by cofilin and Aip1.
CONCLUSION: The results show that Munc-18-2 and syntaxin 3 form a complex in vivo and suggest that they participate in epithelial cell differentiation and targeted vesicle transport processes in the developing kidney.
Confluent calf pulmonary artery endothelial monolayers exposed to 95% oxygen for 1, 2, or 3 days exhibit a time-dependent increase in adherence to substratum, which closely parallels changes in actin cytoarchitecture and the distribution of focal contact proteins vinculin and talin.
Consistent with the observation that beta-catenin and plakoglobin bind to the same region of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin competed with the binding of plakoglobin to alpha-catenin and vice versa.
Conversely, inhibition of LIMK's activity by expressing a dominant negative construct, LIMK1-, or expression of the constitutively active S3A cofilin mutant induces loss of actin filaments at the phagocytic cup and also inhibits phagocytosis.
Co-precipitation experiments using whole cell lysates indicate that the mutant form of alpha-catenin binds beta-catenin and plakoglobin, and can form a structural complex with E-cadherin via these interactions.
Coprecipitations revealed that transfected cadherin molecules are complexed with alpha-catenin and beta-catenin at plasma membranes.
Cotransfections with different combinations of these genes demonstrated that a subset of four of them, coding for the HSV helicase-primase complex (UL5, UL8, UL52) and the major DNA-binding protein (UL29), was already sufficient to mediate the helper effect.
Crystallization and preliminary crystallographic analysis of the N-terminal actin binding domain of human fimbrin.
CV-1 cells were transfected with cloned genes from wild-type HPIV-3 encoding the large protein (L), phosphoprotein (P), and nucleocapsid protein (NP), alone or together, for the expression of biologically active proteins.
Cytoplasmic staining included stress fibers that colocalized with actin, probably as a consequence of the myosin heavy chain component of the fusion protein.
Data from affinity chromatography, analytical ultracentrifugation, covalent cross-linking, and fluorescence anisotropy show that profilin, thymosin beta(4), and actin form a ternary complex.
Data is presented to suggest that the G1 cyclin D1 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27KIP1 may be involved in subversion of the G1/S traverse by signaling pathways activated by HER-2 function.
Data presented here suggest that two of the repressed genes encode the proteins actin and myosin heavy chain.
Death receptors belong to the TNF receptor family and are characterised by an intracellular death domain that serves to recruit adapter proteins such as TRADD and FADD and cysteine proteases such as Caspase-8.
Deletion and overexpression studies demonstrate that SIR2, but not SIR1, SIR3 or SIR4, is required for this rDNA position effect.
Deletion mutants of the herpes simplex virus type 1 UL8 protein: effect on DNA synthesis and ability to interact with and influence the intracellular localization of the UL5 and UL52 proteins.
Deletion of both RAD50 and RAD51 produces a phenotype similar to that produced by deletion of RAD52.
Deletion of SIR4 enhanced mURA3 and MET15 silencing, but deletion of SIR1 or SIR3 did not affect silencing, indicating that the mechanism of silencing differs from that at telomeres and silent mating loci.
Demembranated stereociliary cores consisted primarily of protein bands corresponding to actin and fimbrin and several proteins ranging from 43 to 63 kDa.
Depending on the nature of the divalent cation, recombinant plant (birch) profilin exhibited two different modes of interaction with actin, like mammalian profilin.
Detection of a sequence involved in actin-binding and phosphoinositide-binding in the N-terminal side of cofilin.
Detection of loss of heterozygosity at RAD51, RAD52, RAD54 and BRCA1 and BRCA2 loci in breast cancer: pathological correlations.
Determination of the total profilin and actin concentrations in PMN revealed that the molar ratio of profilin to actin was 1 to 5.2.
Developmental changes in actin and myosin heavy chain isoform expression in smooth muscle.
Digestion of isolated myofibrils with alkaline proteinase resulted in the degradation of myosin heavy chain and actin.
Direct binding of the verprolin-homology domain in N-WASP to actin is essential for cytoskeletal reorganization.
Discrete segments (70-150 amino acids) of PRT1 and TIF35 were found to be responsible for their binding to TIF34.
Dispersal of profilin from such sites by oligoproline-rich peptide inhibitors suggests that profilin is directly involved in intracellular pathogen locomotion and reorganization of actin cytoskeleton of the host cell peripheral membrane.
Disruption of the RVS167 gene, which is homologous to END6/RVS161 and which is also required for correct actin localization, also blocks endocytosis.
DNA sequence analysis of the cdc3+ gene reveals that it encodes profilin, an actin-monomer-binding protein.
Double mutants containing N-terminal domain deletions of both histone H3 and histone H4 were inviable.
DR3 signal transduction is mediated by a complex of intracellular signaling molecules including TRADD, TRAF2, FADD, and FLICE.
During apoptotic process induced by the agents, expression of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors p21 and p27 increased, whereas expression of cyclin D1 decreased.
During incubation of whole myofibrils at 37 degrees C, myosin heavy chain, alpha actinin, actin and troponin T suffered degradation.
Dynamic actin structures stabilized by profilin.
Effects of profilin-annexin I association on some properties of both profilin and annexin I: modification of the inhibitory activity of profilin on actin polymerization and inhibition of the self-association of annexin I and its interactions with liposomes.
Effects of macrophage profilin on actin in the presence and absence of acumentin and gelsolin.
Effects of mutations of RAD50, RAD51, RAD52, and related genes on illegitimate recombination in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
Effects of single amino acid substitutions in the actin-binding site on the biological activity of bovine profilin I.
Electrical stimulation of cardiocyte contraction did not enhance alpha-cardiac actin or myosin heavy chain (alpha+beta) mRNA transcript levels relative to 28S rRNA during the period of rapid growth that occurred over the first 48 hours.
Elevation of cAMP induced morphologic alterations indicative of changes in the adhesive status of the macrophage, including cell rounding and disassembly of structures that represent points of contact with substrate containing actin and talin.
END5 encodes a proline-rich protein (End5p or verprolin) required for a polarised cortical actin cytoskeleton and endocytosis [2,3].
Equine satellite cell clone SE-11 and ovine satellite cell clone I(1)were evaluated for expression of myosin heavy chain, myogenin, desmin, and muscle-specific actin over a 240 h period in culture.
Essential domains of the PRP21 splicing factor are implicated in the binding to PRP9 and PRP11 proteins and are conserved through evolution.
Evaluation of the binding of Acanthamoeba profilin to pyrene-labeled actin by fluorescence enhancement.
Even the Munc18-2 mutants that do not detectably bind syntaxin 3 were membrane associated in Caco-2 cells, suggesting that the syntaxin interaction is not the sole determinant of Sec1 protein membrane attachment.
Even though rates of total protein and actin synthesis resembled values measured in vivo, myosin heavy chain fractional rate of synthesis was only 22% of in vivo levels.
Evidence for a conformational change in actin induced by fimbrin (N375) binding.
Evidence suggests that this differential recognition bears functional significance concerning the intricate roles of profilin and inositol lipids in modulating actin polymerization and PtdIns(4,5)P2 turnover.
Exclusion of cardiac myosin heavy chain and actin gene involvement in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy of several French families.
Experiments performed using extracts from doubly infected cells indicated that UL8 could interact separately with both the UL5 and UL52 proteins.
Experiments using a peptide that corresponds to the N-terminus of thymosin beta(4) (residues 6-22) confirm the presence of an extensive binding surface between actin and thymosin beta(4), and explain why thymosin beta(4) and profilin can bind simultaneously to actin.
Exposure of the cells to tumor promoter did, however, result in a loss of actin and talin-rich cell surface elaborations that resemble focal contact precursor structures.
Exposure of the rabbit retina to a combination of an A1-adenosine receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3 dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), and adenosine deaminase did not affect the enhancing action of DAMGO on the light-evoked release of ACh.
Expression of actin and myosin heavy chain genes in skeletal, cardiac and uterine muscles of young and old rats.
Expression of alpha-catenin was generally weak and did not correlate with the expression of either beta-catenin or E-cadherin.
Expression of beta-catenin was investigated in normal breast tissue and 66 breast carcinomas in conjunction with expression of epithelial cadherin (E-CD) and alpha-catenin.
Expression of c-Myc or cyclin D1 was sufficient to activate cyclin E-Cdk2 by promoting the formation of high-molecular-weight complexes lacking the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, as has been described, following estrogen treatment.
Expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin in normal ovarian surface epithelium and epithelial ovarian cancers.
Expression of the A8R and A23R genes occurred between 1 and 5 h after vaccinia virus infection and was not prevented by an inhibitor of DNA replication, consistent with a role for VITF-3 in specifically regulating intermediate transcription in vivo.
Expressions of cyclin E, A, and B1 in Hodgkin and Reed-Sternberg cells: not suppressed by cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 expression.
Features studied were actin, microtubules, vinculin, and talin, using immunofluorescence, sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and immunoblotting; permeability of the cell sheet; wound healing; and phagocytic capacity.
Finally, both receptors can interact with FADD, TRADD, and RIP.
Finally it was shown that the two isoforms of actin can be separated from each other in the absence of profilin also by chromatography on hydroxyapatite.
Finally, we evaluated the acetylation of three putative PCAF substrates, histones H3 and H4 and the transcription factor p53, and have determined that histone H3 is significantly preferred over the histone H4 and p53 substrates.
Finally, we used in vitro translated proteins in an immunoprecipitation assay to show that, like beta 1-syntrophin, both beta 2- and alpha 1-syntrophin interact with peptides encoding the syntrophin-binding region of dystrophin, utrophin/dystrophin related protein, and the Torpedo 87K protein.
First, the C-terminal verprolin-cofilin-acidic domain was shown to be essential for the regulation of actin cytoskeleton.
Fluorescent actin analogs with a high affinity for profilin in vitro exhibit an enhanced gradient of assembly in living cells.
Fluorographic analysis showed that the specific activity of soluble actin was two to three times that of its particulate form and that soluble actin, cofilin, actin depolymerizing factor, and profilin were transported at similar rates in slow component b of axonal flow.
For example, profilin with a deletion of the eight C-terminal residues has many of the physical properties of a molten globule, yet remarkably still binds to actin.
For example, it is associated with alpha-catenin and beta-catenin (Armadillo), and protected from trypsin digestion only in the presence of Ca2+, as is the case for many of classic cadherins.
Four yeast spliceosomal proteins (PRP5, PRP9, PRP11, and PRP21) interact to promote U2 snRNP binding to pre-mRNA.
From an analysis of profilin mutants, whose actin cytoskeleton is disrupted, we found that E-APC also requires actin filaments to associate with adhesive cell membranes in the ovary.
From previous work, the BNI1, GIC1, and GIC2 gene products also appear to be involved in linking Cdc42p to the actin cytoskeleton.
From these observations it is concluded that (i) RAD52 is required for high levels of both gene conversions and reciprocal crossovers, (ii) that RAD51 is not required for intrachromosomal crossovers, and (iii) that RAD51 and RAD52 have different functions, or that RAD52 has functions in addition to those of the Rad51/Rad52 protein complex.
From these we have isolated eight viable and lethal alleles of the muscle myosin heavy chain gene, and seven viable alleles of the indirect flight muscle (IFM)-specific Act88F actin gene.
Frozen tissue sections, isolated cardiomyocytes, cultured neonatal cardiomyocytes and fibroblasts were hybridized with DNA probes for type-specific collagens, actin, and myosin heavy chain.
Full-length beta-catenin, beta-catenin mutant proteins with NH2-terminal deletions before (deltaN90) or after (deltaN131, deltaN151) the alpha-catenin binding site, or a mutant beta-catenin with a COOH-terminal deletion (delta C) were expressed in MDCK cells under the control of the tetracycline-repressible transactivator.
Further deletion analysis demonstrated that this fragment contains three regions, which are important for nucleation and share functional and/or limited sequence similarity with host WASP family proteins: an acidic stretch, an actin monomer-binding region, and a cofilin homology sequence.
Furthermore, a simultaneous expression of profilin, actin and extracellular matrix proteins was observed during the regeneration of rat liver, that is, all mRNAs of these proteins showed biphasic peaks around 6 h and 48 h after partial hepatectomy.
Furthermore, the deletion of SJL1 suppresses the temperature-sensitive growth defect of sac6, a mutant in yeast fimbrin, supporting a role for synaptojanin family members in actin function.
Furthermore, this inactivating effect of calmodulin can be prevented by coexpressing a region of the cytoskeletal protein alpha-actinin2 known to interact with the CO region of NR1.
Further, PRP incubated with IL-6 showed a dose dependent increase in TXB2 and BTG secretion as measured by RIA and an increased incorporation of actin binding protein, talin, and myosin into the cytoskeletal core (triton insoluble residue) as shown by SDS-PAGE.
Further, we show that talin, a high molecular weight structural protein that links integrins to the actin cytoskeleton, is proteolytically cleaved in fetal, but not in neonatal melanocytes.
Fusiform RPE, however, were not deficient in these proteins, expressing amounts of N-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, plakoglobin, p120, alpha-actinin and vinculin that were equivalent to epithelioid cells.
Fusion of the endocardial ridges of the truncus on late ED13 is accompanied by the organization of alpha-smooth muscle actin-and nonmuscle myosin heavy chain-positive myofibroblasts into a central whorl and the appearance of the semilunar valve anlagen at their definitive topographical position within the proximal portion of the truncus.
Gel electrophoresis was used to measure changes in the relative amounts of actin or myosin and of myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms.
Generation of these membrane microparticles was dependent on the presence of extracellular calcium and was accompanied by proteolytic degradation of the cytoskeletal proteins, actin binding protein (ABP), talin, and myosin heavy chain.
Genetic analysis suggested that this phenotype was due to msh6-F337A sequestering MSH2 and preventing it from interacting with MSH3 and MSH6.
Genetic dissection of Drosophila myofibril formation: effects of actin and myosin heavy chain null alleles.
Germline mutations in several members of these families, MSH2, MSH6, MLH1, and PMS2, but not MSH3, are responsible for hereditary non-polyposis colorectal cancer.
Glutathione S-transferase pull-down performed with Tax deletion mutants and peptide competition have localized the site in Tax critical for binding CBP/p300 to a highly protease-sensitive region around amino acid residues 81 to 95 (81QRTSKTLKVLTPPIT95) which lies between the domains previously proposed to be important for CREB binding and Tax subunit dimerization.
Gravin is not likely to be a nonerythroid spectrin, talin, myosin, or actin-binding protein based on the lack of reactivity of antigravin with these polypeptides in immunoblots.
Green fluorescent protein-tagged ORC1 associated with chromatin throughout mitosis in living cells and co-localized with ORC4 in metaphase spreads.
Hence, we conclude that in its dimeric form, which is used in actin and lipid binding, talin is a dumbbell-shaped molecule built of two antiparallel subunits.
Here, specific interactions between human RAD51 and RAD52 proteins are demonstrated both in vivo, using the yeast two-hybrid system and immunoprecipitation of insect cells co-infected with RAD51 and RAD52 recombinant viruses, and in vitro, using affinity chromatography with purified recombinant proteins.
Here we demonstrate that accessory receptor triggering induces the transient association of cofilin with the actin cytoskeleton.
Here we demonstrate that growth arrest and differentiation of NT2/D1 cells induced by HMBA involve increased expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27, enhanced association of p27 with cyclin E/CDK2 complexes and suppression of kinase activity associated to cyclin E/CDK2 (but not to cyclin D3/CDK4).
Here we demonstrate that type XIII collagen is concentrated in cultured skin fibroblasts and several other human mesenchymal cell lines in the focal adhesions at the ends of actin stress fibers, co-localizing with the known focal adhesion components talin and vinculin.
Here, we describe proline-rich proteins involved in regulating actin polymerization and classify them according to their role in recruiting profilin to the membrane.
Here we describe the TNF-dependent activation of acid SMase (A-SMase) through the p55 TNF receptor-associated proteins TRADD and FADD.
Here, we designed a genetic screen for mutant strains defective for filamentous growth (dfg) to identify novel targets of the filamentation signaling pathway, and we thereby identified 16 different genes, CDC39, STE12, TEC1, WHI3, NAB1, DBR1, CDC55, SRV2, TPM1, SPA2, BNI1, DFG5, DFG9, DFG10, BUD8 and DFG16, mutations that block filamentous growth.
rad59 mutations completely abolished the ability to generate type II survivors, while rad50 mutations decreased the growth viability of type II survivors but did not completely eliminate their appearance.
Here, we have detected a polypeptide in rat rod outer segments that is recognized by myosin heavy chain antibodies and was found to possess other characteristics of conventional non-muscle myosin heavy chain: it comigrates in SDS-PAGE with non-muscle myosin heavy chain; it associates with the cytoskeleton of rod outer segments in an ATP-sensitive manner; and it binds to purified actin filaments in the absence of ATP.
Here we have now identified the reciprocal complementary binding site in alpha-catenin which mediates its interaction with beta-catenin and plakoglobin.
Here we identify a pathway for the regulation of cofilin, a ubiquitous actin-binding protein that is essential for effective depolymerization of actin filaments.
Here, we prepared a profilin mutant (H119E) defective in actin binding, but retaining the ability to bind to other proteins.
Here, we report that Aip1p also interacts with the ubiquitous actin depolymerizing factor cofilin.
Here we report that p120 associates with a complex containing E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.
Here we report the functional importance of profilin in various actin-mediated morphological changes using H119E mutant profilin I, which is deficient only in actin binding.
Here we show that cdc12p is a member of a family of proteins including Drosophila diaphanous, Saccharomyces cerevisiae BNI1, and S. pombe fus1, which are involved in cytokinesis or other actin-mediated processes.
Here, we show that EID-1 is a potent inhibitor of differentiation and link this activity to its ability to inhibit p300 (and the highly related molecule, CREB-binding protein, or CBP) histone acetylation activity.
Here, we show that PRP5 (a DEAD box helicase-like protein), PRP9, and PRP11 are each required for the U2 snRNP to bind to the pre-spliceosome during spliceosome assembly in vitro.
Here we show that the Arp2 subunit of the complex can be chemically cross-linked to the actin-binding site of profilin.
Here we show that the N-terminal domain of ActA binds one actin monomer, in a profilin-like fashion, and Arp2/3 complex and mimics the C-terminal domain of WASp family proteins in catalyzing filament barbed end branching by Arp2/3 complex.
Here we show that the ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis system is involved in the regulation of beta-catenin turnover.
beta-catenin, but not E-cadherin, p120(cas) or alpha-catenin, becomes stabilized when proteasome-mediated proteolysis is inhibited and this leads to the accumulation of multi-ubiquitinated forms of beta-catenin.
Here, we show that the x-ray sensitivity of rad55 and rad57 mutant strains is suppressible by overexpression of RAD51 or RAD52.
alpha-SNAP binds to predicted alpha-helical coiled-coil regions of syntaxin and SNAP-25, shown previously to be engaged in their direct interaction.
Here, we sought to determine the spatial distributions of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin, and whether different complexes of these proteins accumulate at steady state in polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney cells.
Here we use physical monitoring of DNA to show that MAT switching is completely blocked at an early step in recombination in strains deleted for the DNA repair genes RAD51, RAD52, RAD54, RAD55 or RAD57.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 encodes a heterotrimeric helicase-primase complex that is composed of the products of the UL5, UL52, and UL8 genes.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 expresses a heterotrimeric helicase-primase, the subunits of which are encoded by the viral UL5, UL8 and UL52 genes.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encodes a helicase-primase that consists of the products of the UL5, UL8, and UL52 genes (Crute, J. J., Tsurumi, T., Zhu, L., Weller, S. K., Olivo, P. D., Challberg, M. D., Mocarski, E. S. and Lehman, I. R. (1989) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 86, 2186-2189).
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encodes a helicase-primase that consists of three polypeptides encoded by the UL5, UL8, and UL52 genes (Crute, J.J., Tsurumi, T., Zhu, L., Weller, S.K., Olivo, P.D., Challberg, M.D., Mocarski, E.S., and Lehman, I.R. (1989) Proc. Natl.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encodes a heterotrimeric helicase-primase composed of the products of the three DNA replication-specific genes UL5, UL8, and UL52 (Crute, J. J., and Lehman, I. R. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 4484-4488).
HGF/SF treatment of LoVo reduced the amount of alpha-catenin complexed with E-cadherin more markedly than in L-10, but in both cell lines this reduction was not accompanied by increased tyrosine phosphorylation of beta-catenin, suggesting the presence of a mechanism other than phosphorylation for release from cell-cell adhesion during cell motility.
High levels of profilin suppress the lethality caused by overproduction of actin in yeast cells.
Histone H3 showed at least seven sites of acetylation, histone H2B.1 had six sites and histone H4 had five sites.
How profilin/barbed-end synergy controls actin polymerization: a kinetic model of the ATP hydrolysis circuit.
How profilin promotes actin filament assembly in the presence of thymosin beta 4.
However, although expression of Ras alone will not induce G1 CDK activity or S phase, coexpression of Ras with Myc allows the generation of cyclin E-dependent kinase activity and the induction of S phase, coincident with the loss of the p27 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI).
However, a number of mammalian DNA repair proteins lack NLS clusters; these proteins include ERCC1, ERCC2 (XPD), mouse RAD51, and the HHR23B/p58 and HHR23A subunits of XPC.
NLS-less S.cerevisiae proteins include both RAD51 and RAD52 that function in the recombination and in the repair of double-strand breaks as well as the RAD23 and HRR25 molecules.
However, disassembly of the actin cytoskeleton using Latrunculin-A does not alter verprolin's location, indicating that verprolin establishes and maintains its location independent of the actin cytoskeleton.
However, immunofluorescence staining revealed a similar organisation of actin microfilaments, talin and phosphotyrosyl-containing proteins on both substrates.
However, increases were also selective in nature, with increases in certain individual proteins, including actin (twofold to threefold), vimentin (2.5-fold to sevenfold), tropomyosin (threefold to sixfold), and myosin heavy chain, far exceeding overall increases in cellular protein content (20-40%).
However, in non-adherent cells no molecular mechanism has yet been proposed for the cell adhesion-dependent up-regulation of the p27 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CKI), and the associated inhibition of cyclin E-CDK2.
However, once initiated, the synthesis of muscle tropomyosin mRNA continued in the presence of cycloheximide, while the expression of muscle actin, myosin heavy chain, and myogenin mRNA was abolished.
However, regulation of profilin function is generally unknown and controversy exists regarding profilin effects on actin polymerization.
However, similar to utrophin, alpha-syntrophin is only present at the neuromuscular junction in mdx mouse muscle in which dystrophin is absent.
However, smooth muscle contents of actin (26.0 +/- 1.8 vs. 19.1 +/- 2.2 micrograms/mg wet wt) and myosin heavy chain (5.5 +/- 0.4 vs. 2.0 +/- 0.3 microgram/mg wet wt) were greater (P < 0.04) in myometrium from late-pregnant vs. nonpregnant ewes.
However, some proteins (e.g., profilin) and other agents (e.g., cytochalasin D) that bind to actin are affected by the presence of fluorescent labels, making actin intrinsic fluorescence potentially useful in investigating the interaction of these agents with actin, and in validating data obtained using labeled actin.
However, the recombinant fusion protein containing wild-type beta-catenin precipitated alpha-catenin from these cells.
However, there were no changes in the expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin.
However, these mutants displayed a lower affinity for actin than wild-type profilin, suggesting that additional putative bonds created this way cannot increase profilin's affinity for actin.
However, these rod structures were not observed in response to TSH, forskolin, or TPA, suggesting that dephosphorylation of cofilin correlates with the reorganization of actin microfilaments but not with the nuclear transport of cofilin.
However, upon treatment with DMSO, cytoplasmic actin filaments were disrupted and intranuclear rod structures containing cofilin and actin were apparently larger and thicker in cells overexpressing cofilin than in normal cells.
However, when all of the four proteins (E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin) were analysed as one group, a significant association was seen between reduction in immunoreactivity of at least one of these four proteins and the presence of metastases.
Human profilins are multifunctional, single-domain proteins which directly link the actin microfilament system to a variety of signalling pathways via two spatially distinct binding sites.
Human platelet P-235, a talin-like actin binding protein, binds selectively to mixed lipid bilayers.
Human platelets contain profilin, a potential regulator of actin polymerisability.
Hypertonicity provoked Fyn-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation in beta-catenin, alpha-catenin, and p120(Cas) and caused the dissociation of beta-catenin from the contacts.
Identification of alpha-syntrophin binding to syntrophin triplet, dystrophin, and utrophin.
Immediately after synthesis, E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin cosedimented as complexes.
alpha-Catenin was not associated with these complexes after synthesis, but a subpopulation of alpha-catenin joined the complex at a time coincident with the arrival of E-cadherin at the plasma membrane.
Immunoblot and Northern blot analyses also revealed the presence of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin (plakoglobin) in these cell lines.
Immunocytochemical localisation of actin and profilin in the generative cell of angiosperm pollen: TEM studies on high-pressure frozen and freeze-substituted Ledebouria socialis Roth (Hyacinthaceae).
Immuno-EM double-labeling experiments were conducted with antibodies to actin together with antibodies to the actin binding proteins Abp1p and cofilin.
Immunofluorescence experiments showed that, like Abp1p, cofilin is associated with the membrane actin cytoskeleton.
Immunofluorescence microscopy of cells grown on fibronectin confirmed the presence of paxillin, talin, and vinculin at the ends of actin stress fibers at presumptive focal contacts in melanocytes.
Immunofluorescence microscopy of monolayers between 2 and 3 h post-TGF-beta1 showed that beta-catenin, plakoglobin, alpha-catenin, and cadherin-5 were colocalized both at the cell periphery and in newly formed bands that are perpendicular to the cell-cell border.
Immunofluorescence microscopy revealed that two actin-binding proteins of low molecular weight with different functional activity, ADF and cofilin, are transported into nuclei of cultured myogenic cells to form rod structures there together with actin, when the cells were incubated in medium containing dimethylsulfoxide.
Immunofluorescence staining of a wild-type strain using anti-Aip1 antibodies revealed that Aip1 was distributed in cortical actin patches where cofilin was also co-localized.
Immunofluorescence studies with these antibodies showed profilin I to be distributed throughout the Acanthamoeba cytoplasm, except for lamellipodia, with the highest fluorescence intensity in cortical regions in which monomeric actin also was present, as shown by labeling with fluorescent DNase.
Immunohistochemical identification and localization of actin and fimbrin in vestibular hair cells in the normal guinea pig and in a strain of the waltzing guinea pig.
Immunohistochemical investigation of actin-anchoring proteins vinculin, talin and paxillin in rat brain following lesion: a moderate reaction, confined to the astroglia of brain tracts.
Immunohistochemical studies showed a strong reactivity of most LAM cells for alpha-smooth muscle actin and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain and a weak to moderate reactivity of a lesser number of cells for desmin and nonmuscle myosin heavy chain II-B.
Immunohistochemistry for a variety of cytokeratins (CKs) (8/18, 1/10, 7, and 20), epithelial membrane antigen (EMA), S-100 protein, vimentin CD34, type IV collagen, smooth muscle actin, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, calponin, and glial fibrillary acid protein was performed.
Immunohistochemistry revealed that arteries had three distinct populations of cells in respect to alpha-smooth muscle actin, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain and vimentin (staining intensities '-', '+' or '++' for each protein), but only two populations in respect to desmin ('-' and '+').
Immunolocalization of E-cadherin (E-cad), alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and CD44 has rarely been investigated in human cholangiocarcinoma (CC).
Immunoprecipitation of alpha-catenin was increased in response to both doses of CdCl2, while the immunoprecipitation of beta-catenin was little changed by either cadmium dose.
Immunoprecipitation of metabolically labeled proteins with HECD-1 revealed three bands corresponding to E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and gamma-catenin and a 79-kDa band which was apparently smaller than that of normal beta-catenin, indicating truncated beta-catenin.
Immunoprecipitations showed in both cell lines the presence of two different E-cadherin- catenin complexes, one composed of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin, and the other of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and plakoglobin.
Immunoprecipitation with an E-cadherin mAb, which is known to co-precipitate the catenins, demonstrated that the three poorly differentiated cell lines expressing E-cadherin did not co-precipitate alpha-catenin, although all of the moderately-well differentiated cell lines expressed both alpha- and beta-catenin.
Immunoreactive E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin proteins in hepatocellular carcinoma: relationships with tumor grade, clinicopathologic parameters, and patients' survival.
Immunoreactivity for pan-cadherin, E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and p120 was observed in all 15 specimens.
Immunostaining showed that APBs also contain replication factor A, RAD51, and RAD52, proteins involved in DNA synthesis and recombination.
Impact of profilin on actin-bound nucleotide exchange and actin polymerization dynamics.
In 50 mM KCl, high concentrations of Acanthamoeba profilin inhibit the elongation rate of muscle actin filaments measured directly by electron microscopy, but the effect is minimal in KCl with 2 MgCl2.
In a blot overlay experiment, purified 125I-labeled recombinant profilin bound not only to plant actin, but also to mammalian actin, demonstrating that cytoskeletal components from distantly related organisms with divergent primary structures can be compatible.
In Acanthamoeba actin polymerization is regulated, at least in part, by profilin, which binds to actin monomers, and by capping protein, which both nucleates polymerization and blocks monomer addition at the 'barbed' end of the filament.
In Acanthamoeba, the two isoforms of profilin may have specialized functions on the basis of their identical (approximately 10 microM) affinities for actin monomers and different affinities for PIP2.
Inactivation of the Rb pathway in non-small cell lung carcinoma (NSCLC) occurs mostly through inactivation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16(INK4A) and/or up-regulation of cyclin D1.
In addition, interactions with components of the phosphatidylinositol cycle and the RAS pathway in yeast implicate profilin as an important link through which the actin cytoskeleton is able to communicate with major signaling pathways.
In addition to its presence in cell-cell adhesion sites, we have found beta-catenin, but not alpha-catenin, in the Z-discs of heart and skeletal striated muscles.
In addition to their role in mismatch repair (MMR), the MSH2 and MSH3 gene products are required to remove 3' nonhomologous DNA tails during genetic recombination.
In addition to the TNF-alpha-induced increase in the general protein synthesis, stimulation with TNF-alpha led to a 2.4-fold increase in net actin protein synthesis and a 3.3-fold increase in net myosin heavy chain synthesis.
In addition, we also provide new evidence to suggest that HRG stimulation of the EF-1alpha promoter involves increased physical interactions with acetylated histone H3 and histone H4.
In addition, we demonstrate that cofilin and its actin binding peptide compete with gelsolin segments 2-3 for binding to actin filaments.
In addition, we have demonstrated that increased gene dosage of either SIR1 or SIR4, two other factors required for silencing, suppresses the silencing defect of the rap1 mutants.
In addition, we performed immunohistochemistry on sectioned Myf-5 and MyoD mutant embryos with antibodies reactive with desmin, nestin, myosin heavy chain, sarcomeric actin, Myf-5, MyoD and myogenin.
In addition, we report that radiation induced transient activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase/stress-activated protein kinase (JNK/SAPK) activation and the transcription factor, AP-1.
In adherens junctions, the cytoplasmic domain of cadherins bind to beta-catenin, which in turn binds to the actin-associated protein alpha-catenin.
In a model system, the interacting proteins recruiting TFIIIC to DNA were PRP21 and PRP9 or PRP21 and PRP11.
In brush cells, villin and fimbrin are not only present in the actin filament core bundles of apical microvilli and their long rootlets but, in addition, both proteins are also associated with microvilli extending from the basolateral cell surface of the brush cells.
In cancerous tissues, the frequency of reduced expression of beta-catenin (28 of 86, 33%) was similar to that of E-cadherin (19 of 86, 22%), but less than that of alpha-catenin (47 of 86, 55%).
In CC, membranous expression of E-cad, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin was the same or reduced when compared with non-cancerous bile ducts in the majority of CC.
In cell extracts, we found that complementary strand synthesis was inhibited by the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21(WAF1/CIP1) and rescued by the addition of proliferating cell nuclear antigen, arguing for the involvement of DNA polymerase (Pol) delta in the conversion reaction.
In cells lacking the myosin-II heavy chain, the bundles, which were induced by an over-expression of cofilin, shortened and became straight following hyperosmotic stress, forming a polygonal structure.
In contrast, act1-159 partially suppresses the temperature sensitivity of a tropomyosin mutant, and the loss of cytoplasmic cables seen in fimbrin, Mdm20p, and tropomyosin null mutants, suggesting filament stabilizing functions for these actin-binding proteins.
In contrast, ADP-ribosylation of actin at Arg95/Arg372 induced by turkey erythrocyte transferase decreased the nucleotide dissociation rate to 1.5 x 10(3) s-1 and inhibited the profilin-induced stimulation of nucleotide exchange.
In contrast, alpha actin and myosin heavy chain mRNA accumulation was not enhanced in hybrid embryos.
In contrast, profilin had little effect on the rigidity and viscosity of actin filaments.
In contrast, talin, another putative actin-membrane linker protein, could not be detected in significant amounts in human neutrophils using a polyclonal antibody raised against chicken gizzard talin, which reacted with human platelet and lymphocyte talin.
In contrast, EC located immediately behind the migrating front retained junctional VE-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin while plakoglobin was absent from these sites.
In contrast, overexpression of the profilin gene, PFY1, encoding an actin-binding protein, leads to no very obvious phenotype.
In contrast, the RAD51 and RAD52 genes are essential for homothallic mating-type switching.
In contrast to the Apc(Min/+) enterocytes, Apc(Min/-) adenomas displayed increased expression and association of E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and alpha-catenin relative to Apc(+/+) controls.
In contrast to the model of actin binding proposed for fimbrin, the utrophin actin-binding domain appears to associate with actin in an extended conformation.
In COS-7 cells overexpressing a N-WASP mutant lacking the proline-rich domain (Deltap) unable to interact with profilin, the actin tail formation of intracellular Shigella was inhibited.
Increased interaction of beta1D integrin with the actin cytoskeleton is consistent with and might be mediated by its enhanced binding to talin.
Increasing the ionic strength within a relatively narrow range significantly decreased ability of talin to bind to actin, regardless of pH.
In cultured cells, cofilin, as well as ADF, translocates from the cytoplasm into the nucleus together with actin and forms rod-like structures in response to heat shock or dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) treatment.
In enriched cell lines and in a pure myocyte cell strain, EGF inhibited increases in immunoreactive sarcomeric actin and sarcomeric myosin heavy chain (SMHC) normally seen after serum withdrawal.
In extracts from mouse brain, profilin I and profilin II can form complexes with regulators of endocytosis, synaptic vesicle recycling and actin assembly.
In flattened cells under starvation stress, cofilin localized at dramatically reorganizing actin-cytoskeletons in ruffling membranes of the leading edge, but not at rigid actin meshwork in focal adhesion plaques.
In growth cones, myosin heavy chain B was most concentrated in the margin bordering the thickened, organelle-rich central region and the thin, actin-rich peripheral region.
Inhibition of 12P-CRE binding was also observed in the presence of an antibody to CREB-binding protein (265-kDa CBP), an integrator and coactivator of cAMP-responsive genes.
Inhibition of actin polymerization by a synthetic dodecapeptide patterned on the sequence around the actin-binding site of cofilin.
Inhibition of actin polymerization in KCl was stronger than that of the parental profilin, and the Kd value of its interaction with rabbit skeletal muscle actin, as determined by falling ball viscometry, was smaller (mean value 0.5 x 10(-6) M, as compared to 1.9 x 10(-6) M for bovine profilin).
Inhibition of actomyosin subfragment 1 ATPase activity by analog peptides of the actin-binding site around the Cys(SH1) of myosin heavy chain.
Inhibition of cyclin D1 expression or induction of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21WAF1 expression was found in mimosine-treated lung cancer cells.
Inhibition of the interactions of cofilin, destrin, and deoxyribonuclease I with actin by phosphoinositides.
In higher plants, a large number of isoforms for the actin monomer-binding protein profilin have been identified, whereas other organisms express only few profilins.
In infected cells, C protein was detected exclusively in the cytoplasm as granular fluorescence, which coincided very well with the distribution of nucleocapsid protein NP and phosphoprotein P, which were also detected with specific antisera.
In invasive ductal carcinomas, alpha-catenin was reduced more frequently in diffuse than in solid type tumours, whereas the level of expression of beta-catenin and E-CD was unchanged between them.
In investigating the mechanism by which pRb induces senescence, we have found that pRb causes a posttranscriptional accumulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(KIP1) that is accompanied by an increase in p27(KIP1) specifically bound to cyclin E and a concomitant decrease in cyclin E-associated kinase activity.
In isolated hearts, PD 81,723 alone produced only a small stimulus to His bundle (S-H) interval prolongation of 1.5 to 4 msec, which was completely reversed by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline and adenosine deaminase.
In localization studies with mammalian cells, all fusion proteins showed the localization expected for profilin in areas of high actin dynamics, such as leading lamellae and ruffles induced by epidermal growth factor.
In most cases, ADF and cofilin colocalized in the same nuclear actin rods, but ADF appeared to predominate in mononucleated cells, while cofilin was present in multinucleated myotubes.
In mouse brain profilin I and profilin II associate with regulators of the endocytic pathway and actin assembly.
In normal livers, E-cad, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin, but not CD44s, CD44v5, CD44v6, CD44v7-8, and CD44v10, were expressed at the cell membrane of normal intrahepatic bile ducts.
In order to clarify cofilin-dependent regulation of actin assembly in muscle cells, cofilin tagged with fluorescence dyes was introduced into C2 myoblasts by a micro injection method.
In order to determine possible changes in the cytoskeleton organization and function during these processes, we have studied the in situ distribution of two major cytoskeleton-associated elements involved in the membrane anchorage of actin microfilaments, i.e. vinculin and talin, during the ontogeny of the neural crest and its derivatives in the avian embryo.
In order to help explain the apparent beneficial effects of cyclin D1 over-expression, a number of closely associated cell cycle proteins have also been evaluated, including the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p27, which blocks the activating effects of cyclin D1.
In particular, both profilin and free filament barbed ends have been shown to play major roles in the processing of ATP by actin.
In reconstitution experiments, actin filaments incubated in EGTA with purified fimbrin and villin form smooth-sided bundles containing an apparently random number of filaments.
In resting leukocytes, beta2 integrins are constitutively linked to the actin cytoskeleton via the protein talin.
In search for genes which might participate in chicken immunoglobulin gene conversion, we have identified chicken counterparts of the yeast RAD51, RAD52, and RAD54 genes.
Insulin-like growth factor-I, actin, and myosin heavy chain messenger RNAs in skeletal muscle after an injection of growth hormone in subjects over 60 years old.
Insulin-like growth factor I stimulates cardiac myosin heavy chain and actin synthesis in the awake rat.
Integrating the actin and vimentin cytoskeletons.
Integrin (beta) chains, for example, interact with actin-binding proteins (e.g. talin and filamin), which form mechanical links to the cytoskeleton.
Integrin binding may be promoted by disruption of links to the cytoskeleton, effected through depolymerisation of actin or cleavage of linking protein talin by calpain.
Interaction between nucleocapsid protein (NP) and phosphoprotein (P) of human parainfluenza virus type 2: one of the two NP binding sites on P is essential for granule formation.
Interaction of Munc-18-2 with syntaxin 3 controls the association of apical SNAREs in epithelial cells.
Interaction of talin with actin: sensitive modulation of filament crosslinking activity.
Interaction of plant profilin with mammalian actin.
Interaction of the yeast RAD51 and RAD52 proteins plays a crucial role in yeast DNA homologous recombination and DNA double-strand break repair.
Interactions of ADF/cofilin, Arp2/3 complex, capping protein and profilin in remodeling of branched actin filament networks.
Interestingly, profilin overproduction can compensate for the deleterious effects of too much actin in a profilin concentration-dependent manner.
Interestingly, the regions that show the most structural diversity are located at or near the actin-binding site of profilin.
Interestingly, two major actin-binding proteins found in brain, gelsolin and profilin, specifically interact with phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, and may themselves play a role in regulating phosphoinositide turnover.
In the ADE2 assay system, silencing depends completely upon the function of the SIR genes, known trans-acting regulators of the silent loci, and is sensitive to the gene dosage of two SIR genes, SIR1 and SIR4.
In the basal layer, patches of brightly labeled cells were detected with antibodies to E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin, but not with antibodies to P-cadherin, alpha-catenin, or with pan-desmocollin and pan-desmoglein antibodies.
In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the DNA damage-induced G2 arrest requires the checkpoint control genes RAD9, RAD17, RAD24, MEC1, MEC2 and MEC3.
In the cytoplasm, HBx was shown to stimulate the Ras-Raf-mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase) cascade, which is essential for activation of transcription factor AP-1.
In the hippocampus, ATP gamma S, an ATP analogue more resistant to catabolism than ATP, was virtually devoid of effect on tritium release, and the effect of ATP was prevented by the ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor alpha,beta-methylene ADP (100 microM), by adenosine deaminase (2 U/ml) and by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX, 20 nM).
In their cytoplasmic region, some of these receptors share a conserved sequence motif - the 'death domain' - which is required for transduction of the apoptotic signal by recruiting other death-domain-containing adaptor molecules like the Fas-associated protein FADD/MORT1 or the TNF receptor-associated protein TRADD [2-4].
In the presence of magnesium ions birch profilin promoted the polymerization of actin from A:Tbeta4.
In the present paper, using indirect immunofluorescence, we found that PMN adhesion to tumor necrosis factor-activated endothelial cells (EC) induced the disappearance from endothelial cell-to-cell contacts of adherens junction (AJ) components: vascular endothelial (VE)-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.
In the present study we show that brush cells can be identified in tissue sections even at the light microscopic level by immunostaining with antibodies against villin and fimbrin, two proteins that crosslink actin filaments to form bundles.
In the present work we have used profilin and DNAse I injections, as well as latrunculin B and cytochalasin D treatments, under quantitatively controlled conditions, to perturb actin microfilament structure and assembly in an attempt to answer this question.
In these investigations, we determine that recruitment of a coactivator protein, CBP (the CREBbinding protein), to the CYBB or NCF2 promoter is the molecular mechanism of transcriptional activation by PU.1, IRF1, and ICSBP.
In this actin clustering, profilin, a monomeric actin-binding protein that has been suggested to be involved in actin polymerization, was shown to be essential.
In this case, efficient repair does not require RAD1 and MSH2, consistent with our previous observations.
In this model, profilin can bind both to actin monomers with a Kd of about 5 microM and to the barbed end of actin filaments with a Kd of about 50-100 microM.
In this recombinant expression system, the dystrophin relatives, human dystrophin related protein (DRP or utrophin) and the 87K postsynaptic protein from Torpedo electric organ, also bind to translated beta 1-syntrophin.
In this study, profilin is identified as an actin-binding protein in higher plants which is present in monocot and dicot angiosperms.
In this study, by immunoprecipitation and affinity chromatography it is shown that adenosine deaminase and A1 adenosine receptors interact in pig brain cortical membranes.
In this study, cell cycle-dependent expression of human and rodent RAD51 and RAD52 proteins was monitored using two approaches.
In this study, the expressions of smooth muscle-specific proteins (desmin, alpha-smooth muscle actin, basic calponin and the smooth muscle myosin heavy-chain isoforms of SM1 and SM2) in three parent and four cloned neuroblastoma cell lines, composed of S-type cells, were examined by indirect immunofluorescence, Western blot and/or by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR).
In this study the role of MSH2, MSH3, and MSH6 in mismatch repair has been examined by measuring the rate of accumulating mutations and mutation spectrum in strains containing different combinations of msh2, msh3, and msh6 mutations and by studying the physical interaction between the MSH2 protein and the MSH3 and MSH6 proteins.
In this study we aimed to determine which type of expression abnormalities for E-cadherin, beta-catenin and alpha-catenin correlate with clinico-pathological features and survival in gastric cancer.
In this study we demonstrate that histone H3 and histone H4 synthesized in young (5 hr) conjugating Tetrahymena are deposited into micronuclei in acetylated forms.
In this study, we demonstrate that profilin isoforms expressed in a single cell can have different effects on actin in living cells and that the poly-L-proline binding function of profilin may have important consequences for the regulation of actin cytoskeletal dynamics in plant cells.
In this study, we demonstrate using viscosity, sedimentation, and actin assembly rate assays that yeast cofilin (16 kD) possesses all of these properties.
In this study, we evaluated the prognostic significance of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin expressions in the metastatic foci of patients with colorectal carcinoma.
In this study we have used the yeast two-hybrid system to map the domains on alpha-catenin that allow it to associate with beta-catenin/plakoglobin and with alpha-actinin.
In this study, we immunohistochemically investigated the expression of beta-catenin as well as E-cadherin and alpha-catenin in 86 human colorectal cancers, and we analysed their coexpression pattern and relationship to clinicopathological factors.
In this work we report that the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD9, RAD24, RAD17, MEC1, MEC3 and RAD53 checkpoint genes are required for efficient non-homologous end joining (NHEJ).
In three of the cell lines with CTNNB1 mutations, complexes of beta-catenin with alpha-catenin and APC were detectable.
Introduction of high concentrations of profilin (estimated injected intracellular concentration 11-22 microM) into infected PtK2 cells causes a marked slowing of actin tail elongation and bacterial migration.
In viscometric assays, the birch protein was seen to modulate actin filament formation analogous to animal profilin.
In vitro, actin purified from some of these mutants is defective in polymerization or binding fimbrin.
In vitro studies indicated that suramin completely blocked PDGF receptor activation or phosphorylation stimulated by PDGF-AB, inhibited activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (ERK) kinases (MEK1/2) and ERK1/2, and abrogated transcription factor AP-1 DNA-binding activity.
In vivo importance of actin nucleotide exchange catalyzed by profilin.
Involvement of profilin in the actin-based motility of L. monocytogenes in cells and in cell-free extracts.
Isolation and characterization of death domain (TNF-RI, Fas, TRADD, FADD/MORT-1, RIP) and TRAF domain-containing proteins (TRAF-1, TRAF-2, TRAF-3) have partially bridged a large molecular gap within one of several signaling pathways which originate at the plasma membrane and terminate in the nucleus.
Isolation of profilin from embryonic chicken skeletal muscle and evaluation of its interaction with different actin isoforms.
Isolation of human delta-catenin and its binding specificity with presenilin 1.
Isolation of human skeletal muscle myosin heavy chain and actin for measurement of fractional synthesis rates.
It is also possible that PtdIns-4,5-P2 has other roles, such as promoting the release of G actin from profilin or promoting the cross-linking of actin or its anchorage to the plasma membrane.
It is estimated that at optimal levels of transcription, every molecule of viral genomic RNA associates with approximately the following number of protein molecules: 30 molecules of L, 120 molecules of phosphoprotein P, and 60 molecules each of actin and profilin.
It is well established that the cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin binds either beta-catenin or plakoglobin, which both can assemble alpha-catenin into the complex.
It reduced the rate of actin polymerization as reported in the cases of profilins from other organisms.
It therefore appears that myosin heavy chain and actin multigene families are both expressed in a species specific fashion but are independently regulated within a species.
Kinetic measurements indicate that profilin binding to actin weakens the affinity of actin for nucleotides primarily due to an increased nucleotide dissociation rate constant, but the nucleotide association rate constant is also increased about 2-fold.
Kinetic simulation showed that the profilin exchanges between actin monomers on a subsecond time scale that allows it to catalyze nucleotide exchange.
Kinetic studies on the effect of yeast cofilin on yeast actin polymerization.
Lack of detection in these preparations of a constituent that binds RBC alpha-spectrin antibody plus the presence of significant quantities of actin, further suggests that the principal membrane skeletal element is actin with perhaps smaller quantities of a 240-kd component, identified by others as the protein talin.
Lethality of the srs2Delta rad54Delta and srs2Delta rdh54Delta double mutants can also be rescued by mutations in the DNA damage checkpoint functions RAD9, RAD17, RAD24, and MEC3, indicating that the srs2 rad54 and srs2 rdh54 mutant combinations lead to an intermediate that is sensed by these checkpoint functions.
Like actin, the actin-associated proteins filamin, talin and the beta 1 integrin subunit were also found to accumulate around entering bacteria.
Like TESK1, TESK2 phosphorylated cofilin specifically at Ser-3 and induced formation of actin stress fibers and focal adhesions.
Like the spectrin alpha-chain, the major central part of the spectrin beta-chain is made up of repeat units of 106 amino-acids.
LIM-kinase 1 (LIMK1) phosphorylates cofilin, an actin-depolymerizing factor, and regulates actin cytoskeletal reorganization.
Linkage between cancer susceptibility and the candidate DNA mismatch repair genes MLH1, MSH2, MSH3, and MSH6 (GTBP) was investigated.
Live dynamics of Dictyostelium cofilin suggests a role in remodeling actin latticework into bundles.
Localization of VASP to the leading edge of a migrating cell can lead to local accumulation of profilin, which in turn can supply actin monomers to growing filament ends.
Location of profilin at presynaptic sites in the cerebellar cortex; implication for the regulation of the actin-polymerization state during axonal elongation and synaptogenesis.
LOH was found in the RAD51 region in 32% of tumours, in the RAD52 region in 16%, in RAD54 in 20% and in the BRCA1 and BRCA2 regions in 49% and 44% respectively.
Loss of memberanous expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin was demonstrated in 52%, 85% and 40% of tumours respectively.
Loss of normal surface E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin and gamma-catenin expression was found in 52/68 (76.4%) tumors, 57/68 (83.8%) tumors, 54/68 (79.4%) tumors and 54/68 (79.4%) tumors (p <0.001).
MAb 0811 was shown to recognize the UL8 protein in both Western blots and immunoprecipitation assays and to co-precipitate the other two proteins in the complex from insect cells triply infected with recombinants expressing the UL5, UL8 and UL52 polypeptides.
Mammalian homologues of two important yeast genes involved in DNA double-strand break repair and recombination, RAD51 and RAD54, have been isolated.
Mammalian LIM-kinases (LIMKs) phosphorylate cofilin and induce actin cytoskeletal reorganization.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A mutation in the myosin heavy chain (Myh) predicted to interfere strongly with myosin's binding to actin was designed and used to create an animal model for HCM.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used an avidin-biotin immunoperoxidase technique to examine the cellular localization of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, gamma-catenin and E-cadherin in 68 TCC and 14 normal bladder biopsies.
MC159 and E8 inhibited both TNFR-1- and CD-95-induced apoptosis as well as killing mediated by overexpression of the downstream adaptors TRADD and FADD.
MDP2 is the previously identified VRP1, which encodes verprolin, required for proper organization of the actin cytoskeleton.
Mechanism of action of Acanthamoeba profilin: demonstration of actin species specificity and regulation by micromolar concentrations of MgCl2.
Mechanism of inhibition of proliferating cell nuclear antigen-dependent DNA synthesis by the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21.
Mechanism of regulation of actin polymerization by Physarum profilin.
Membranous staining and concomitant cytoplasmic localization of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and gamma-catenin were seen in one case with abnormal beta-catenin immunoreactivity.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The frequency-dependent effects of iodotubercidin (ITU, an inhibitor of adenosine kinase), erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine (EHNA, an inhibitor of adenosine deaminase), draflazine (a nucleoside transport blocker), and PD81,723 (an allosteric enhancer of the A1 adenosine receptor binding) on the stimulus-to-His bundle (SH) interval, a measure of AV nodal conduction, were determined in guinea pig hearts and compared with those of adenosine and diltiazem.
METHODS: Ileal and colonic biopsy specimens from 19 SpA patients with subclinical inflammatory gut lesions and from seven controls were stained with monoclonal antibodies against E-cadherin, beta-catenin and plakoglobin and a polyclonal antibody against alpha-catenin.
METHODS: Paraffin-embedded sections of five AVMs, CCMs, and control brain tissues were stained immunohistochemically with antibodies to alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), myosin heavy chain, and smoothelin, a novel marker for contractile VSMC phenotype.
METHODS: Tumor samples from 77 patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the esophagus were immunohistochemically evaluated for the expression of 10 molecules: the cell cycle-related molecules of cyclin D1, Rb, p16INK4, p27KIP1, and PCNA; the cell-cell adhesion molecules of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin; and the heat shock proteins of HSP27 and HSP70.
METHODS: We have performed a detailed study of the pattern of expression of myosin heavy chain (MHC), myosin light chain (MLC), troponin I (TnI) isoforms, connexin 43 (Cx43), desmin and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), in the ventricular conduction system of normal and congenitally malformed mouse hearts (iv background) from embryonic day 14.5 to 19.5.
METHODS: We immunohistochemically investigated the expression of E-cadherin (E-Cad), alpha-catenin (A-Cat) and beta-catenin (B-Cat) during human intrahepatic bile duct development, using 31 fetal livers of various gestational ages.
MgCl2 strongly inhibits these effects of profilin, most likely by binding to the high-affinity divalent cation site on the actin.
Microinjection or stable expression of V12Ras into keratinocytes promotes the loss of E-cadherin and alpha-catenin and relocalization of beta-catenin to the cytoplasm and nucleus.
Mitochondrial genes (16.2%), myosin heavy chain genes (9%) and the actin alpha skeletal muscle gene (9%) were the most abundant transcripts.
MLL is fused in-frame to a different exon of CBP in two patients producing chimeric proteins containing the AT-hooks, methyltransferase homology domain, and transcriptional repression domain of MLL fused to the CREB binding domain or to the bromodomain of CBP.
Modifying preselected sites on proteins: the stretch of residues 633-642 of the myosin heavy chain is part of the actin-binding site.
Molecular analysis of the cadherin-catenin complex elucidated the central role of beta-catenin in this adhesion complex, as it binds to the cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin and to alpha-catenin.
beta-Catenin may also function in signalling pathways, given its homology to the gene product of the Drosophila segment polarity gene armadillo, which is known to be involved in the wingless signalling cascade.
Molecular cloning and primary structure analysis demonstrated that alpha-catenin is homologous to vinculin and the beta-catenin is homologous to human plakoglobin and the Drosophila gene product armadillo.
[Molecular functions of cofilin which regulates reorganization of actin cytoskeleton].
Molecular packing in profilin: actin crystals and its implications.
Molecules known to link actin filaments to membrane were also examined, including alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, plakoglobin, and zyxin, but none was identified at the host-parasite junction.
Monoclonal antibodies recognizing the N- and C-terminal regions of talin disrupt actin stress fibers when microinjected into human fibroblasts.
Monocytes and in vitro differentiated U937 cells induce focal loss in the staining of VE-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin during transendothelial migration under physiological flow conditions.
Moreover, addition of profilin to steady-state actin filaments causes slow depolymerization.
Moreover, talin, but not vinculin or tubulin, appears to co-localize with actin microfilaments in the membrane ruffles of NK cells that undergo cytoskeleton rearrangement following CD31 cross-linking.
Moreover, ectopic expression of cyclin D1 and Cdk4 can stimulate the Brca1 promoter in an E2F-dependent manner, and this is inhibited by coexpression of the p16(INK4a) cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor.
Moreover, in the presence of cofilin, rapid interconversion of monomeric and polymeric forms of actin can be induced by simply changing the pH of the medium.
Moreover, the virus-encoded profilin homolog was not required for actin-associated events, including intracellular virus movement to the periphery of the cell, formation of specialized microvilli, or release of mature virions, as shown by electron microscopy and yields of infectious intra- and extracellular virus.
Most of these integrins, with their intracellular domains, interact with the actin-containing cytoskeleton, via linking proteins such as vinculin and talin, while one of them interacts with the keratin filaments, via an as yet unknown linking molecule(s).
Most previous studies have focused on profilin itself rather than its complex with actin.
Motile areas of leech neurites are rich in microfilaments and two actin-binding proteins: gelsolin and profilin.
Mutants of cdc3 and cdc8, which encode profilin and tropomyosin respectively, display disorganized actin patches in all cells.
Mutations in BUD3, BUD4, and AXL1 cause a and alpha cells to exhibit the bipolar pattern, indicating that these genes are necessary to specify the axial budding pattern (Chant, J., and I. Herskowitz. 1991. Cell. 65:1203-1212; Fujita, A., C. Oka, Y. Arikawa, T. Katagi, A. Tonouchi, S. Kuhara, and Y. Misumi. 1994. Nature (Lond.). 372:567-570).
Mutations in RVS161 and RVS167, the two yeast amphiphysin homologs, cause very similar growth phenotypes, a depolarized actin cytoskeleton, and a defect in the internalization step of endocytosis.
Mutations in RAD27 cause increased rates of mitotic crossing over and are lethal in combination with mutations in RAD51 and RAD52.
Mutations in Saccharomyces cerevisiae RFC5, DPB11, MEC1, DDC2 MEC3, RAD53, CHK1, PDS1, and DUN1 increased the rate of genome rearrangements up to 200-fold whereas mutations in RAD9, RAD17, RAD24, BUB3, and MAD3 had little effect.
Mutations that alter putative RNA-binding residues of either HSH49 RRM are lethal in vivo, but do not prevent binding to CUS1 in vitro, suggesting that the predicted RNA-binding surfaces of HSH49 are not required for interaction with CUS1.
Myo2p shows homology to the head domains and the coiledcoil tail of the conventional type II myosin heavy chain and carries putative binding sites for ATP and actin.
Myogenin mRNAs were transiently expressed in forming myotubes.
alpha-Skeletal actin and fast myosin heavy chain mRNAs were detected precociously, before the young myotube stage.
Myosin heavy chain A staining was dimmer and its colocalization with filamentous actin bundles in growth cones was less striking than that of myosin heavy chain B.
Native profilin, purified from extracts of lung epithelial cells by affinity binding to a poly-L-proline matrix, stimulated the actin-saturated RSV transcription by 2.5- to 3-fold.
Neither can profilin I, in the presence of the peptide, promote actin polymerization during its early phase consistent with a lower affinity.
Newly disclosed interactions between gephyrin, exchange factors for G proteins of the Rho and Rac families, the translational regulator RAFT1, and actin-binding proteins like profilin might integrate activity-dependent and trophic-factor-mediated signals at developing postsynaptic sites.
N-formyl peptide chemoattractants in neutrophils stimulate the formation of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2), a reservoir for second messenger molecules and regulator of actin assembly through its association with the actin-binding proteins, profilin, and gelsolin.
No evidence for the surface expression of the phosphoprotein (P), matrix (M) or nucleocapsid (N) proteins was found.
No significant changes in glomerular vinculin, talin, beta 1-integrin, or total actin expression occurred at any time point during disease development.
Notably, the two pro-apoptotic adapter proteins TRADD and FADD are also involved in the activation of A-SMase.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether other glycoprotein 130 (gp130) binding cytokines can mimic the effects of oncostatin M (OSM) in acting synergistically with interleukin-1alpha (IL-1alpha) to induce cartilage collagen breakdown and collagenase expression, and to determine which receptors mediate these effects.
Of the five major structural proteins of MV, only nucleocapsid (N) protein and phosphoprotein (P protein) were consistently detected in diseased brain areas.
p130 and pRb were phosphorylated before the infected myotubes entered S phase, despite the high expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, and E2F was released.
Once the actin monomer is bound to the filament, the profilin is released, and is available to bind to additional actin monomers.
One complex is composed of E-cadherin, alpha- and beta-catenin, the other of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin and plakoglobin.
One involves talin, which has recently been shown to bind actin directly.
One, MORT1 (also called FADD), binds to Fas/APO1 but not to p55-R; another, TRADD, binds to the p55 TNF receptor but not to Fas/APO1; and the third, RIP, binds weakly to both receptors.
One mutation, sac6-69, is in the gene encoding fimbrin, another actin-binding protein, which was expected because null mutations in SAC6 and CAP2 are known to be synthetic-lethal.
One such protein is the yeast actin-binding protein Sac6p, which is homologous to vertebrate fimbrin (Adams, A. E. M., D. Botstein, and D. G. Drubin. 1991. Nature (Lond.). 354:404-408.).
Only the unphosphorylated form of cofilin is an active form that binds actin, whereas the regulatory mechanisms of cofilin have not been elucidated.
On the basis of these results, we present a model for prereplicative site formation in infected cells in which the helicase-primase components (UL5, UL8, and UL52), the origin-binding protein (UL9), and the viral single-stranded DNA-binding protein (ICP8) assemble together to initiate the process.
On the internal (cytoplasmic) side of focal contacts, several proteins, including talin and vinculin, mediate interactions with the actin filament bundles of the cytoskeleton.
On the other hand, polymerization assays give disparate results that are inconsistent with the binding assays and each other: profilin has different effects on elongation at the two ends of actin filaments; profilin inhibits the elongation of platelet actin much more strongly than muscle actin; and simple formation of 1:1 complexes of actin with profilin cannot account for the strong inhibition of spontaneous polymerization.
On the other hand, we have recently proposed the importance of cofilin, an actin-binding phosphoprotein, in phagocyte functions through dephosphorylation and translocation to the plasma membrane regions.
Opposite effects of cofilin and profilin from porcine brain on rate of exchange of actin-bound adenosine 5'-triphosphate.
Other actin-associated proteins, including vinculin, talin, and ezrin, are not present.
Other mammalian actin-binding proteins such as profilin and CapG but also fragmin from Physarum polycephalum are similar targets for PIP2-stimulated pp60(c-src) phosphorylation.
p53-mediated cell injury exhibited proteolysis of the caspase protein substrate lamin B without appreciable breakdown of TnI.
Other than monomeric actin, no major profilin ligands are detected in crude extracts.
Our data indicate that even profilins of highly distant evolutionary origin can functionally substitute for each other and support the hypothesis that in animal cells, profilins are engaged in regulating either the stability or the kinetic properties of actin filaments.
Our data strongly support the view that the mobile form of actin in slow transport is soluble and that a substantial amount of this actin may travel as a complex with actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin, and profilin.
Our data, which suggest that pollen profilin can regulate actin-based cytoskeletal protein assembly and protein kinase or phosphatase activity, indicate a possible role for the involvement of profilin in signaling pathways that may regulate pollen tube growth.
Our findings strongly suggest that in brain profilin I and profilin II complexes link the actin cytoskeleton and endocytic membrane flow, directing actin and clathrin assembly to distinct membrane domains.
Our in vitro recombinant protein-protein interaction studies demonstrated that Stat1 could directly interact with TNFR1 and TRADD but not with FADD.
Our results define a mechanism for the regulation of cofilin and hence of actin dynamics in vivo.
Our results provide support for both physical and functional interactions between three subunits, TIF34, PRT1 and p33, in the eIF3 complex.
Our results showed that cell morphology, cell adhesion pattern, actin organization, and distribution of integrin subunits, talin, vinculin, and phosphotyrosine-containing proteins are dependent on the supramolecular organization of the collagens.
Our results show that the major pool of polymerizable actin monomers is complexed with profilin and spread throughout the cytoplasm.
Overexpression of a gene fragment encoding the CREB binding domain of CBP stimulates transcription from the PEPCK gene promoter.
Overexpression of cofilin stimulates bundling of actin filaments, membrane ruffling, and cell movement in Dictyostelium.
Overexpression of cyclin E and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (p27Kip1): effect on cell cycle regulation in HeLa cells.
p21 (p21WAF1/Cip1), a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, induces G1 arrest and can inhibit the activity of the proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA).
Panels of six to 31 MAbs against the haemagglutinin (H), fusion (F), nucleocapsid protein (NP), phosphoprotein (P) and matrix (M) proteins of MV and the H, F, NP and P proteins of CDV were employed.
Particle aggregates associated with this array of actin microfilaments also labeled with antibodies to vinculin, talin and beta 1-integrin.
P-cadherin expression is a better indicator of clinical outcome than alterations in the expression of E-cadherin, N-cadherin, alpha-catenin, or beta-catenin.
PDGF treatment had no effect on talin, vimentin, or microtubule distribution in BALB/c-3T3 cells; in addition, exposure of cells to 5% platelet-poor plasma (PPP), 0.1% PPP, 30 ng/ml epidermal growth factor (EGF), 30 ng/ml somatomedin C, or 10 microM insulin also had no effect on vinculin or actin distribution.
Pervanadate caused a dramatic augmentation of the phosphorylation of E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin (plakoglobin), but alpha-catenin was not detectably phosphorylated.
PF4-dependent downregulation of cyclin E-cdk2 activity was associated with increased binding of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, p21(Cip1/WAF1), to the cyclin E-cdk2 complex.
pH control of actin polymerization by cofilin.
Phosphoinositides bind to profilin and regulate actin-based cytoskeletal protein assembly.
Phosphorylation by LIM-kinase 1 inactivates cofilin, leading to accumulation of actin filaments.
Phosphorylation of profilin by PKC was not affected by the presence of various concentrations of actin.
Phosphorylation of the headpiece domain could regulate the actin binding and bundling properties of fimbrin, or it could regulate the interaction of fimbrin with other proteins.
Photochemical cleavage of myosin heavy chain and the effect on the interaction with actin.
Platelet talin binds to actin in vitro and hence is an actin binding protein.
PMS2 is one of a complex of genes encoding DNA repair proteins that includes MSH2, MLH1, MSH6 and MSH3.
Polyacrylamide gels of platelets heated at 45 degrees C for 90 minutes showed an increase in talin incorporation into heated platelet cytoskeletons but no increase in filamentous actin.
Porcine arterial SMCs in culture not only express high levels of alpha-smooth muscle (SM) actin but, contrary to rodent SMCs, also maintain an appreciable expression of SM myosin heavy chain isoforms 1 and 2, desmin, and smoothelin, a recently described late differentiation marker of vascular SMCs.
Previously, we have shown that in the absence of RAD52, repair is nearly absent and diploid cells lose the broken chromosome; however, in cells lacking RAD51, gene conversion is absent but cells can repair the DSB by BIR.
Previous studies have yielded conflicting results concerning the physiological role of profilin, a 12-15-kD actin- and phosphoinositide-binding protein, as a regulator of actin polymerization.
Production of PIP and PIP2 may be important downstream signals since these polyphosphoinositides are able to regulate the interaction of gelsolin and profilin with actin.
Profilin I and profilin II have similar affinities for PtdIns(4,5)P2 and poly(L-proline), and both accelerate nucleotide exchange on monomeric actin to the same extent.
Profilin II binds actin with a similar affinity to that of profilin I, although it inhibits actin polymerization more strongly than profilin I under non-equilibrium conditions.
Profilin is generally thought to regulate actin polymerization, but the observation that acidic phospholipids dissociate the complex of profilin and actin raised the possibility that profilin might also regulate lipid metabolism.
Profilins also bind polyphosphoinositides, which can disrupt the profilin-actin complex, and proline-rich ligands which localize profilin to sites requiring extensive actin filament accumulation.
Protein phosphorylation of cofilin, an actin-binding protein that depolymerizes actin filaments, suppresses its function.
Proteolytic activity was not detected with casein, actin, or myosin heavy-chain substrates.
PS1 fragments form complexes with E-cadherin, beta-catenin, and alpha-catenin, all components of adherens junctions.
PtK2 cells of exceptionally large size were microinjected with fluorescently labeled probes for actin, myosin, filamin, and talin in order to follow the assembly of the contractile proteins into the cleavage furrows.
Pulse-chase biosynthetic labeling experiments demonstrated that contractile arrest accelerated the loss of isotopic tracer from the total myofibrillar protein fraction, myosin heavy chain (MHC), and actin, but not desmin.
Purification of a cortical complex containing two unconventional actins from Acanthamoeba by affinity chromatography on profilin-agarose.
Purification of cofilin, a 21,000 molecular weight actin-binding protein, from porcine kidney and identification of the cofilin-binding site in the actin sequence.
Pyrenyliodoacetamide labeling of cysteine 374 of muscle actin reduces the affinity for profilin 10-fold.
Quantitation of the appearance of X22 banding in primary cultures of myotubes indicates that it precedes that of other myofibrillar proteins and that assembly takes place in the following order: X22, titin, myosin heavy chain, actin, and desmin.
Quantitative analysis of the effect of Acanthamoeba profilin on actin filament nucleation and elongation.
Recent evidence that profilin inhibits phospholipase C and enhances nucleotide exchange of actin has led some to question whether profilin is ever truly an actin monomer sequestering agent.
Recently it has been established, through a detailed biochemical analysis, that recombinant Arabidopsis thaliana fimbrin 1 (AtFim1) is a member of the fimbrin/plastin family of actin filament bundling or cross-linking proteins [D.R. Kovar et al. (2000) Plant J 24:625-636].
Recently, two mammalian proteins previously shown to regulate the actin cytoskeleton, Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome Protein (WASP) and its homolog expressed in neurons (N-WASP), were found to possess short peptide motifs homologous to one part of verprolin.
Recently, we characterized several profilin isoforms from maize pollen for their ability to alter cytoarchitecture when microinjected into living plant cells and for their association with poly-L-proline and monomeric actin from maize pollen.
Recently we have identified an alpha-catenin binding site in beta-catenin and plakoglobin and postulated, based on sequence analysis, that these protein-protein interactions are mediated by a hydrophobic interaction mechanism.
Recently, we have shown that the small actin-depolymerizing protein cofilin represents a component of a co-stimulatory signaling pathway in human T cells.
Recently we reported that the isolated 23 kDa N-terminal fragment of myosin heavy chain, which contains the 'consensus' ATP binding site, binds to actin in an ATP-sensitive manner (Muhlrad, A. (1989) Biochemistry 28, 4002).
Recombinant HSH49 protein has a general RNA-binding activity that does not require CUS1.
Recombinant human beta-catenin can simultaneously bind to the alpha-catenin/actin complex but does not bind actin directly.
Recombinant plant (birch) profilin was analyzed for its ability to promote actin polymerization from the actin:thymosin beta4 and beta9 complex.
Recruitment of a myosin heavy chain kinase to actin-rich protrusions in Dictyostelium.
Redistribution of actin, profilin and phosphatidylinositol-4, 5-bisphosphate in growing and maturing root hairs
Reduced E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin and plakoglobin expression correlated closely with the differentiation grade of the esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (p < 0.05).
Reduced expression of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin is associated with high cell proliferative activity and poor differentiation in non-small cell lung cancer.
Reduced expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin was observed in 64% (87 of 135), 50% (43 of 86), and 58% (50 of 86) of the specimens tested, respectively.
Reduced expression of E-cadherin and alpha-catenin, as well as mutations in the E-cadherin gene, have been found in various carcinomas, whereas mutations in the alpha- and beta-catenin genes have been described only in carcinoma cell lines.
Reduced or absent immunoreactivity in the tumour tissue was seen in 63 (70.0 per cent) for alpha-catenin, in 50 (55.6 per cent) for beta-catenin, and in 50 (55.6 per cent) for gamma-catenin.
Redundancy of Saccharomyces cerevisiae MSH3 and MSH6 in MSH2-dependent mismatch repair.
Regulation of actin dynamics through phosphorylation of cofilin by LIM-kinase.
Regulation of myosin heavy chain and actin isogenes during cardiac growth and hypertrophy.
Regulation of myosin heavy chain and actin isogenes expression during cardiac growth.
Reinvestigation of the inhibition of actin polymerization by profilin.
Removal of one nonhomologous DNA end during gene conversion by a RAD1- and MSH2-independent pathway.
Removal of the amino-terminal tails of either histone H3 or histone H4 allowed these polyamides to bind.
Replacement of serine 38 with cysteine created a unique site where labeling with rhodamine did not alter the affinity of profilin for actin.
Requirement of the yeast MSH3 and MSH6 genes for MSH2-dependent genomic stability.
Requirement of yeast fimbrin for actin organization and morphogenesis in vivo.
Resonance energy transfer determination of the following distances, using a hybrid myosin: those between Cys-55 on the Mercenaria regulatory light chain, SH-1 on the Aequipecten myosin heavy chain, and Cys-374 of actin.
RESULTS: E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin and gamma-catenin were expressed in a normal membranous pattern in all normal bladder epithelium specimens.
Results from epistasis analyses indicate that MSH2 functions in mismatch repair in conjunction with MSH3 or MSH6 and that MSH3 and MSH6 constitute alternate pathways of MSH2-dependent mismatch repair.
RESULTS: Reduced normal expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin in comparison with normal epithelium was detected in 78 primary tumors, respectively.
Reversible binding of actin to gelsolin and profilin in human platelet extracts.
RIPc, one of the cleavage products, enhanced interaction between TRADD and FADD/MORT1 and increased cells' sensitivity to TNF.
Rod formation was prevented by coexpression of N-cadherin, APC, and Tcf-4, which bind to the armadillo repeats of beta-catenin, but not by coexpression of alpha-catenin, although alpha-catenin expression did prevent accumulation of beta-catenin in the nucleus.
Role of cofilin in epidermal growth factor-stimulated actin polymerization and lamellipod protrusion.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae PAC2 functions with CIN1, 2 and 4 in a pathway leading to normal microtubule stability.
Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD14 was identified in a two-hybrid screen using MSH2 as "bait," and pairwise interactions between MSH2 and RAD1, RAD2, RAD3, RAD10, RAD14, and RAD25 subsequently were demonstrated by two-hybrid analysis.
SDS-PAGE analysis of growth cone cytoskeletons revealed the presence of several major bands, identified by their mobility as actin (43 kDa Mr), myosin heavy chain (195 kDa Mr), spectrin (235 and 240 kDa Mr), and tubulin (51-54 kDa Mr).
Selective monoclonal antibodies confirm that most of the profilin is bound to actin: 65% in extract immunoadsorption assays and 74-89% by fluorescent antibody staining.
Selective repression of actin and myosin heavy chain expression during the programmed death of insect skeletal muscle.
Semiserial sections were subjected to immunohistochemical staining with antibodies to alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SMA), desmin and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain isoforms: SM1, SM2 and SMemb.
Sepharose beads coupled to either monoclonal anti-gelsolin antibodies or to polyproline were used to extract gelsolin and profilin, respectively, from EGTA-containing platelet extracts and determine the proportion of these molecules bound to actin with sufficient affinity to withstand dilution (high-affinity complexes).
Sequence analysis of the genes encoding the nucleocapsid protein and phosphoprotein (P) of phocid distemper virus, and editing of the P gene transcript.
Sequences upstream of the coding region for RAD51 protein share homology with the damage response sequence element of RAD54, an upstream activating sequence required for damage regulation of the RAD54 transcript, and also contain two sites for restriction enzyme MluI; the presence of MluI restriction sites has been associated with cell cycle regulation.
A 1.6-kb transcript corresponding to RAD51 was observed, and levels of this transcript increased rapidly after exposure to relatively low doses of X-rays.
Ser-133 phosphorylation enhances CREB activity by promoting interaction with a 265-kDa CREB binding protein referred to as CBP (Arias, J., Alberts, A., Brindle, P., Claret, F., Smeal, T., Karin, M., Feramisco, J., and Montminy, M. (1994) Nature 370, 226-228; Chrivia, J. C., Kwok, R. P., Lamb, N., Hagiwara, M., Montminy, M. R., and Goodman, R. H. (1993) Nature 365, 855-859).
Seventeen embryonic genes were identified as embryonic alpha-tubulin, embryonic beta-tubulin, hnRNP, protein L-isoaspartyl methyltransferase (PIMT), ferritin heavy chain, type IV collagen, actin-binding protein cofilin, profilin and nine novel sequences designated as A1-9.
Several intracellular proteins termed catenins, including alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin, are tightly associated with these cadherins and serve to link them to the cytoskeleton.
Several lines of evidence show that the profilins fully renature after removal of the urea by dialysis: 1) dialyzed Acanthamoeba and human profilins rebind quantitatively to poly-L-proline and bind to actin in the same way as native, conventionally purified profilin without urea treatment; 2) dialyzed profilins form 3-D crystals under the same conditions as native profilins; 3) dialyzed Acanthamoeba profilin-I has an NMR spectrum identical with that of native profilin-I; and 4) dialyzed human and Acanthamoeba profilins inhibit actin polymerization.
Several proteins, such as calmodulin, calbindin, actin, tubulin, and fimbrin, have previously been described.
Signaling pathways involved in dephosphorylation and localization of the actin-binding protein cofilin in stimulated human neutrophils.
Significantly, those actin mutants exhibiting the most severe phenotypes in all three processes have altered residues that cluster to a small region of the actin crystal structure previously defined as the fimbrin (Sac6p)-binding site.
Silencing mediated by GBD-SIR1 requires the trans-acting factors that normally participate in repression, namely, SIR2, SIR3, SIR4, and histone H4.
Since alpha-catenin is required for cadherin-mediated adhesion, the armadillo repeat region alone probably cannot promote cell adhesion, making it unlikely that beta-catenin induces axis duplication by increasing cell adhesion.
Since both caldesmon and profilin have been found enriched in ruffling membranes of animal cells, our in vitro findings may be relevant to the regulation of actin filaments in living cells.
Since RAD54 is a recombinational protein associated with RAD51, this is the first genetic evidence that cancer arises from a defect in repair processes involving homologous recombination.
Since functional characteristics for profilin II are lacking, we assayed the actin, the phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate and the poly(L-proline) binding properties of this isoform.
Since our earlier studies of Acanthamoeba profilins suggested the importance of PIP2 binding for suppression, we conclude that both activities are implicated and that an interplay between PIP2 binding and actin binding may be important for profilin function.
Since the NH2 terminus of profilin is blocked, Edman degradation gave only the sequence of the conjugated actin CNBr fragment beginning with Trp-356.
Single-headed myosin, which consists of a full length myosin heavy chain and a tagged tail, was isolated on the basis of the affinities for Nickel agarose and actin.
Smooth muscle alpha actin and myosin heavy chain expression in the vascular smooth muscle cells surrounding human endometrial arterioles.
Smooth muscle talin prepared from chicken gizzard binds to skeletal muscle actin in vitro.
So far, three ligands for profilin have been well-characterized in vitro: actin monomers, membrane polyphosphoinositides and poly-L-proline.
Specific antibodies to myosin heavy chain isoforms (SM1, SM2, SMemb), caldesmon, and alpha-smooth muscle actin and cDNAs for SMemb were used.
Specific interaction between the nucleocapsid protein (N) and the phosphoprotein (P) of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), an important step in the life-cycle of the virus, was studied by using a two-hybrid system.
Specific interactions between the nucleocapsid protein (N) and the phosphoprotein (P) of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) have been investigated using a yeast-based two-hybrid system.
Specific interactions between the human RAD51 and RAD52 proteins.
Spontaneous and mitomycin C-induced SCE levels were significantly reduced for chicken DT40 B cells lacking the key HR genes RAD51 and RAD54 but not for nonhomologous DNA end-joining (NHEJ)-defective KU70(-/-) cells.
Stable transfection of mutant plakoglobin molecules showed that deletion of the N-cadherin binding domain, but not the alpha-catenin binding domain, abolished beta-catenin downregulation.
Stimulus-dependent disorganization of actin filaments induced by overexpression of cofilin in C2 myoblasts.
Structural studies on the ribbon-to-helix transition in profilin: actin crystals.
Studies on cultured cells have suggested that both alpha-catenin and plakoglobin are important for the adhesive function of cadherins.
Studies on the interaction between actin and cofilin purified by a new method.
Study of mutated yeast profilins and profilins from Acanthamoeba suggests that the ability of profilin to suppress cap- cells is dependent upon a property other than, or in addition to, its ability to bind actin.
Such motifs are known to bind to profilins (PFNs), small proteins engaged in the control of actin dynamics.
Suppression of cell transformation by the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p57KIP2 requires binding to proliferating cell nuclear antigen.
Surprisingly, although maintained in mitogen-rich medium, this ectopic expression was associated with a transactivation of the endogenous myogenin and myosin light chain 2 gene but not the endogenous MyoD1, MRF4, Myf5, the skeletal muscle actin, or the myosin heavy chain genes.
Targeting by antisense 3'UTI significantly increased motility compared with the corresponding sense ODN.
alpha-Sm actin inhibition also led to the formation of less prominent focal adhesions as revealed by immunofluorescence staining against vinculin, talin, and beta1-integrin.
Testicular protein kinase 1 (TESK1) is a serine/threonine kinase highly expressed in testicular germ cells and has the potential to phosphorylate cofilin and induce actin cytoskeletal reorganization.
The 16236 nt genome encodes eight proteins, nucleocapsid protein (NP), phosphoprotein (P), V protein, matrix protein (M), fusion protein (F), small hydrophobic (SH) protein, haemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) protein and large (L) protein, which are flanked by a 55 nt leader sequence and a 54 nt trailer sequence.
The actin-binding protein profilin binds to PIP2 and inhibits its hydrolysis by phospholipase C.
The actin-binding protein profilin was isolated from Tetrahymena thermophila by affinity chromatography, and the peptide sequence was determined for part of the protein.
act1-157, an actin mutant with an increased intrinsic rate of nucleotide exchange, suppressed defects in actin organization, cell growth, and fluid-phase endocytosis of pfy1-4, a profilin mutant defective in actin binding.
The actin bundle formation induced by overexpression of cofilin is accompanied with an increase in cell motility of Dictyostelium cells. 4.
The actin cytoskeleton-associated protein talin binds to integrins, vinculin, and actin.
The actin monomer-binding protein, profilin, influences the dynamics of actin filaments in vitro by suppressing nucleation, enhancing nucleotide exchange on actin, and promoting barbed-end assembly.
The actin-sequestering activity of both maize profilin classes was found to be dependent on the concentration of free calcium.
The alpha-catenin molecule links E-cadherin/ beta-catenin or E-cadherin/plakoglobin complexes to the actin cytoskeleton.
The ability of these three mutant UL5 proteins to form specific interactions with other members of the helicase-primase complex, UL8 and UL52, indicates that the functional domains required for replication activity of UL5 are separable from domains responsible for protein-protein interactions.
The ability of WIP to replace verprolin is dependent on its WH2 actin binding domain and a putative profilin binding domain.
The cellular tumor antigen p53 is bound to the simian virus 40 (SV40) large T-antigen in SV40-infected and -transformed cells.
The CREB binding domain of CBP is sufficient to contact to c-Jun in vitro.
The activation of the c-Raf-1-BxB-ER protein leads to an accumulation of high levels of cyclin D1 protein and a repression of the p27Kip1 cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor under all culture conditions tested.
The adventitial tissue underlying PTCA-induced lesions temporarily expressed alpha-SM actin, desmin, and SM myosin heavy chain isoforms, but not smoothelin.
The affinity of yeast profilin for rabbit actin (2.9 microM) is approximately 30-fold weaker than the affinity of human platelet profilin for rabbit actin (0.1 microM), and the relative contributions of entropic and enthalpic terms to the overall free energy of binding are different for the two profilins.
The affinity of ZmPRO4 for monomeric actin, which was measured by two independent methods, is similar to that of the three profilin isoforms previously identified in pollen.
The aim of our study on human seminiferous tubules of adolescent testes was to study the localization of two actin-associated proteins of the adherens junctions, such as vinculin and talin, and to verify if there were modifications in their pattern in varicocele, a frequent disease of the testis in adolescent age.
The amino acid composition of the 15-kDa protein was similar to that of mammalian profilin and it inhibited the salt-induced polymerization of rabbit skeletal muscle actin.
The amount of unassembled actin (12 microM) is accounted for by the sequestering functions of T beta 4Xen (20 microM) and profilin (5 microM), the barbed ends being capped.
The analysis of the viral proteins by electrophoresis indicates molecular weight differences between CDV and PDV in the fusion (F), phosphoprotein (P), H, nucleocapsid (N) and matrix (M) proteins.
The APC binding site on beta-catenin may be discontinuous since neither the carboxyl- nor amino-terminal halves of beta-catenin will independently associate with APC, although the amino-terminal half independently binds alpha-catenin.
The APC protein and E-cadherin form similar but independent complexes with alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.
The apparent critical concentration for polymerization of actin is increased by the addition of profilin.
The PRT1, TIF34, GCD10, and SUI1 proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were found previously to copurify with eukaryotic translation initiation factor 3 (eIF3) activity.
The RAD51-interacting region (amino acids 291-330) of the human RAD52 protein shows no homology with the yeast RAD52 protein, indicating that the interaction between RAD51 and RAD52 is species-specific.
The Arp2/3 complex, first isolated from Acanthamoeba castellani by affinity chromatography on profilin, consists of seven polypeptides; two actin-related proteins, Arp2 and Arp3; and five apparently novel proteins, p40, p35, p19, p18, and p14 (Machesky et al., 1994).
The Arp2/3 complex with full-length Scar, Scar containing P, W, and A domains, or Scar containing W and A domains overcomes inhibition of nucleation by the actin monomer-binding protein profilin, giving active nucleation over a low background of spontaneous nucleation.
The assay detects the high-affinity binding of actin to actin-binding proteins (ABPs), cofilin or DNase I.
The assembly of complete HSV replication compartments and incorporation of BrdU were both abolished by treatment with phosphonoacetic acid (PAA) and by omission of any one of the seven viral replication proteins, UL5, UL8, UL9, UL42, UL52, SSB, and Pol, that are essential for viral DNA replication.
The UL8 component of the herpes simplex virus helicase-primase complex stimulates primer synthesis by a subassembly of the UL5 and UL52 components.
The AV nodal effects of draflazine, ITU, EHNA, and PD81,723 were reversed by the A1 adenosine receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline and adenosine deaminase, implicating endogenous adenosine acting at the A1 adenosine receptor.
The adenosine deaminase-binding region is distinct from major anti-CD26 mAb epitopes on the human dipeptidyl peptidase IV(CD26) molecule.
cDNA cloning, heterologous expression, and actin-binding properties.
The cofilin homology sequence is critical for stimulating actin nucleation with the Arp2/3 complex in vitro, and is essential for actin polymerization and motility in cells.
The binding constants of Acanthamoeba profilin to fluorescein-labeled actin from Acanthamoeba and from rabbit skeletal muscle have been determined by measuring the reduction in the actin tracer diffusion coefficients, determined by fluorescence photobleaching recovery, as a function of added profilin concentration.
The binding of 125I-labeled recombinant birch pollen profilin to plant and animal actins can be blocked by profilin-specific antibodies that react with different epitopes of birch profilin.
The binding surfaces for segment 1 and profilin are different, although they peripherally overlap on actin.
The myosin heavy chain (MHC) contains the actin- and ATP-binding sites and represents the molecular motor of muscle contraction.
The phosphoprotein (P) of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) serotypes New Jersey [P(NJ)] and Indiana [P(I)] contains a highly conserved carboxy-terminal domain which is required for binding to the cognate N-RNA template as well as to form a soluble complex with the nucleocapsid protein N in vivo.
The RAD54 and RAD51 genes are involved in genetic recombination and double-strand break repair in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
The talin dimer, which is crucial for actin and lipid binding, is built of a backbone containing the 200 kDa rod portions, at both ends of which a 47 kDa globular domain is attached.
The verprolin-like central (vc) region of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein induces Arp2/3 complex-dependent actin nucleation.
The C374S mutation had the most pronounced effect; it reduced the polymerizability of the actin, abolished its binding to profilin, and filaments containing this mutation moved at reduced rates in the in vitro 'motility assay'.
The cadherin-associated proteins, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin, were present in both mesotheliomas and adenocarcinomas.
The cardiac myosin heavy chain Arg-403-->Gln mutation that causes hypertrophic cardiomyopathy does not affect the actin- or ATP-binding capacities of two size-limited recombinant myosin heavy chain fragments.
The cardiac ventricular myosin heavy chain phenotype is developmentally and hormonally regulated, but less is known concerning the actin phenotype.
The cellular concentrations and binding characteristics of these molecules are consistent with profilin being a negative regulator of the phosphoinositide signaling pathway in addition to its established function as an inhibitor of actin polymerization.
The cellular morphological changes were analyzed and correlated with the distribution of cell-substratum contacts viewed by confocal images obtained after immunostaining with antibodies raised against the fibronectin receptor, talin, vinculin and actin.
The cellular transcription co-activators p300 and the CREB-binding protein CBP are cellular targets for transformation by the E1A proteins of non-oncogenic adenovirus 5 (Ad5).
The centrifugation assay and the DNase I inhibition assay demonstrate that cofilin binds to actin filaments in a 1:1 molar ratio of cofilin to actin monomer in the filament and that cofilin increases the monomeric actin to a limited extent (up to 1.1-1.5 microM monomer) in the presence of physiological concentrations of Mg2+ and KCl.
The characteristics of the vitamin D-binding protein and profilin interactions with actin are similar.
The clone contains an open reading frame of 139 amino acid residues which shows greater than 40% sequence identity in a 91 amino acid overlap to animal actin-depolymerizing factors (ADF), cofilin and destrin.
The colocalization of gelsolin and profilin in motile, microfilament-rich areas supports the hypothesis that they synergistically regulate the actin dynamics that underlie neurite growth.
The common denominator is impaired beta-catenin association with either E-cadherin (PaTuII) or alpha-catenin (BxPc3 and T3M4).
The comparison of E-CD proteins synthesized by E62 and E24 cell lines revealed no structural or functional differences because both localized at cell-cell contacts and associated with alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.
The concentration of beta-catenin was constant during the follicular phase, whereas the content of alpha-catenin decreased in granulosa cells after treatment with diethylstilboestrol or hCG.
The contents of myosin heavy chain, myosin light chain 2, actin, troponin-I in 125-week-old rats decreased compared with those of 12-week-old rats.
The core histones from Physarum, histones H2A, H2B, H3, and H4, are rapidly acetylated; histone H4 shows five subfractions, analogous to the five subfractions of mammalian histone H4 (containing zero to four acetyllysine residues per molecule); histone H3 has a more complex pattern that we interpret as zero to four acetyllysine residues on each of two sequence variants of histone H3; histones H2A and H2B show less heterogeneity.
The core, isolated in the absence of free Ca2+, contains five major proteins: the actin (Mr 43 000) that makes up the filaments, the villin (Mr 95 000) and fimbrin (Mr 68 000) that cross-link the filaments together, and the 110 000 Mr polypeptide-calmodulin complex that makes up cross-filaments which project laterally from the core and link it to the inner surface of the microvillus membrane.
The C-terminal of TRADD comprises the "death domain" that is responsible for association of TNFR1 and other death domain-containing proteins such as FADD and RIP.
The C-terminal region of ORC3 was, however, necessary to bring ORC4 and ORC5 into the core complex.
The current view of the mechanism of action of Acanthamoeba profilin is that it binds to actin monomers, forming a complex that cannot polymerize [Tobacman, L. S., & Korn, E. D. (1982) J. Biol. Chem. 257, 4166-4170; Tseng, P., & Pollard, T. D. (1982) J. Cell Biol. 94, 213-218; Tobacman, L. S., Brenner, S. L., & Korn, E. D. (1983) J. Biol. Chem. 258, 8806-8812].
The cytoplasmic domain of E-cadherin cannot directly associate with alpha-catenin but interacts with high affinity with beta-catenin, whereas the binding of gamma-catenin (plakoglobin) to E-cadherin is less efficient.
alpha- and beta-catenin assemble into a 1:1 heterodimeric complex.
The data suggest that profilin binding to actin weakens nucleotide binding to actin by disrupting Mg(2+) coordination in the actin central cleft.
The deduced peptide sequence contained a nuclear localization signal and a putative actin-binding sequence as reported in NM-type cofilin.
The differential localization of the three actin monomer-binding proteins suggests that they have different biologic functions in Acanthamoeba and is consistent with the hypotheses that (1) profilin I functions predominantly as an actin monomer-binding protein; (2) profilin II regulates, or is regulated by, PIP2; and (3) actobindin inhibits nucleation of new filaments and facilitates elongation of existing polarized filaments in actively motile regions.
The distribution of actin filaments is altered by profilin overexpression.
The domain consists of a mixed alpha-helical/beta-sheet fold that resembles a circular permutation of the actin/poly-proline binding protein, profilin, and the GAF/PAS family of regulatory modules.
The domains in CBP that are involved in CREB binding and transcriptional activation are highly related to the adenoviral E1A-associated cellular protein p300 (refs 2, 3), and to two hypothetical proteins from Caenorhabditis elegans, R10E11.1 and K03H1.10 (refs 4 and 5, respectively), whose functions are unknown.
The drastic effects of the exogenous cofilin on actin assembly were suppressed by phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PIP2).
The E-cadherin-associated proteins alpha-catenin and beta-catenin were not significantly affected by treatment with TPA.
The effects of two adhesion substrates (serum and laminin) and time in culture on the expression of genes encoding myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms and alpha-skeletal actin were analysed in myocytes isolated from adult rat heart and maintained in serum-free culture.
The enzyme showed hardly any activity below 50 degrees C but considerable activity at around 60 degrees C against myofibrils, digesting myosin heavy chain, actin and tropomyosin.
The essential role of profilin in the assembly of actin for microspike formation.
The existence of this pathway helps to explain some of the effects of LIM kinase and cofilin in the control of actin dynamics.
The exogeneous cofilin, but not ADF, caused quick disassembly of actin filaments and accumulated in furrow region of dividing cells.
alpha- and beta-catenin were present in most ovarian cells at all stages of folliculogenesis.
The expression of APC, alpha-catenin and beta-catenin also was decreased in HT29 cells, with a translocation of APC into the nucleus.
The findings suggest that M1 muscarinic receptors are involved in muscarinic receptor-mediated enhancement of IL-2 production in Jurkat cells and that the transcription factor AP-1 and pathways via mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal regulated protein kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase, but not via p38 MAPK, may be involved in the muscarinic receptor-mediated enhancement of IL-2 production.
The gel point assay using an actin cross-linking protein and the nucleation assay also suggested that cofilin shortens the actin filaments and hence increases the filament number.
The gene RVS167 therefore could be implicated in cytoskeletal reorganization in response to environmental stresses and could act in the budding site selection mechanism.
The gene for the human CREB binding protein, the transcriptional coactivator CBP, is included in the RT1 cosmid, and mutations in CBP have recently been identified in nondeleted RTS patients.
The genes considered are those for 5S, 5.8S and 18S rRNA, actin I, profilins Ia/b and II, myosins IB, IC and II, and calmodulin.
The head domain of talin thus binds to integrins to form a link to the actin cytoskeleton and can thus regulate integrin function.
The herpes simplex virus helicase-primase complex, a heterotrimer of the UL5, UL8, and UL52 proteins, displays a single predominant site of primer synthesis on phi X174 virion DNA (Tenney, D. J., Hurlburt, W. W., Micheletti, P. M., Bifano, M., and Hamatake, R. K. (1994) J. Biol. Chem. 269, 5030-5035).
The herpes simplex virus type 1 UL8 protein influences the intracellular localization of the UL52 but not the ICP8 or POL replication proteins in virus-infected cells.
The herpes simplex virus type-1 DNA helicase-primase is a heterotrimer encoded by the UL5, UL8, and UL52 genes.
The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) helicase-primase, an essential component of the viral DNA replication machinery, is a trimeric complex of the virus-coded UL5, UL8, and UL52 proteins.
The herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) UL5, UL8, and UL52 proteins form a helicase-primase complex in infected cells.
The Herpes simplex virus type 1 primosome consists of three subunits that are the products of the UL5, UL8, and UL52 genes.
The herpes simplex virus type-1 UL5, UL8, and UL52 genes encode an essential heterotrimeric DNA helicase-primase that is responsible for concomitant DNA unwinding and primer synthesis at the viral DNA replication fork.
The higher affinity of vaccinia profilin for polyphosphoinositides (Kd = 0.2-8.5 microM) than for actin or poly(L-proline) and the concentration of vaccinia profilin expressed in infected HeLa cells (approximately 20 microM) suggest that vaccinia profilin binds preferentially to PIP and PIP2 in vivo.
The high recombination levels seen in rad5 and rad18 mutants is dependent on the RAD1, RAD51, RAD52, and RAD5 genes.
The hyperproliferative response observed in the gastric mucosa is secondary to this initial insult and is associated with increased expression of cyclin D1, the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p16ink4a and of p53 and decreased expression of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p27kip1.
The I/LWEQ module is a conserved sequence that we have identified as an actin-binding motif in the metazoan focal adhesion protein talin and the yeast protein Sla2p.
The influence of these collagens on cell morphology and the distribution pattern of actin, vimentin, talin, and vinculin was analyzed by light microscopy, conventional electron microscopy, immunofluorescence, and immunogold labeling after lysis-squirting.
The inhibitory effects of rapamycin on bombesin-stimulated cell cycle progression did not involve accumulation of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(kip1) but a striking inhibition of the expression of cyclin D1.
The interaction between calf spleen profilin and actin depends critically on the status of the C-terminus of the actin, and in the case of profilin, the C-terminus is of great importance for the physiochemical behaviour of the protein.
The interaction between the human respiratory syncytial virus phosphoprotein (P) and nucleocapsid (N) protein has been investigated using the two hybrid system in yeast and in tissue culture cells.
The interaction of Acanthamoeba actin and Acanthamoeba profilin was evaluated as a function of ionic conditions.
The interaction of a mouse monoclonal antibody (4A6) and birch profilin, a structurally well conserved actin- and phosphoinositide-binding protein and cross-reactive allergen, was characterized.
The interaction of bovine respiratory syncytial virus (BRSV) phosphoprotein (P) with nucleocapsid (N) and large polymerase (L) proteins was investigated using an intracellular BRSV-CAT minigenome replication system.
The interactions of actin with thymosin beta 4, actobindin and profilin are compared.
The interactions of the UL52 protein with the UL8 and UL5 proteins were analysed by using the yeast two-hybrid system.
The interactions of yeast and human platelet profilins with rabbit skeletal muscle actin were characterized by titration microcalorimetry, fluorescence titrations, and nucleotide exchange kinetics.
The intracellular molecules calmodulin and profilin actively regulate actin-based motility and participate in the signaling pathways used to steer growth cones.
The in vitro and in vivo binding patterns were highly similar, and the association of the Munc18-2 variants with syntaxin 3 correlated well with their ability to displace SNAP-23 from syntaxin 3 complexes when overexpressed in Caco-2 cells.
The in vivo and in vitro properties of yeast profilin mutants with altered poly-L-proline and actin binding sites are discussed in the context of the crystal structure.
The involvement of the death adaptor proteins FADD/MORT1, TRADD, and RIP and the apoptosis-initiating caspases-8 and -10 in death signaling by the two death-inducing TRAIL receptors 1 and 2 (TRAIL-R1 and TRAIL-R2) are controversial.
Their abilities to store lipids and express desmin intermediate filaments, alpha-smooth muscle actin, and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain in contractile filaments in vitro illustrate similarities among the pulmonary LF, the hepatic lipocyte, and the contractile interstitial cell, which contribute to the repair reaction in the lung after pulmonary injury.
The isolated intestinal microvillus cytoskeleton (core) consists of four major proteins: actin, villin, fimbrin and brush border myosin-I.
The junctional multidomain protein AF-6 is a binding partner of the Rap1A GTPase and associates with the actin cytoskeletal regulator profilin.
The K114E profilin exhibited a profound decrease in its ability to interact with actin, whereas binding to poly-(L)-proline was essentially unchanged.
The long repeats, which are interdigitated between the PRRs, increased the frequency with which actin-based motility occurred by a mechanism independent of the PRRs, VASP, and profilin.
The main inhibitory action of p27, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor (CDKI), arises from its binding with the cyclin E/cyclin-dependent kinase 2 (Cdk2) complex that results in G(1)-S arrest.
The majority of cortical thymomas showed diffuse and homogenous membrane immunoreactivity for these molecules (88 per cent for E-CD; 86 per cent for alpha-catenin; 91 per cent for beta-catenin) and the remaining cases showed heterogeneous immunoreactivity, whereas almost all mixed and medullary thymomas revealed decreased expression or were negative.
The majority of the aromatic residues in profilin are exposed to solvent and lie in either of two hydrophobic patches, neither of which takes part in an interface with actin.
The map locates the N-terminal calcium-binding domain and identifies actin-binding site residues on the two calponin-homology domains of fimbrin.
The mechanism of profilin-promoted actin polymerization has been systematically reinvestigated.
The microvillus cytoskeleton, isolated from chicken intestinal epithelial cell brush borders, is known to contain five major protein components, the 110,000-dalton polypeptide, villin (95,000 daltons), fimbrin (68,000 daltons), actin (43,000 daltons), and calmodulin (17,000 daltons).
The monomeric actin-binding protein, profilin, is a key regulator of actin-filament dynamics in animal cells and it has recently been identified in plants as a pollen allergen.
The most significant finding was the re-expression of E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin, and increased down-regulation of gamma-catenin, in metastatic lesions.
The most striking difference was in the relative preference for acetylation of histone H4 versus acetylation of histone H3: with the purified acetylase, histone H4 in nucleosomes was acetylated to a much greater extent than was histone H3, whereas the reverse preference was found with the endogenous acetylase(s).
The multifunctional protein profilin is one of the most abundant proteins in the cytoplasm and is thought to regulate actin assembly and the phosphoinositide signaling pathway.
The muscle-related genes included actin, tropomyosin, troponin I, myosin regulatory light chain, myosin light chain kinase, myosin heavy chain, calmodulin, calponin, calcium vector protein, creatine kinase, muscle LIM protein, and SH3-binding glutamate-rich protein, suggesting that vertebrate skeletal and smooth muscle-type genes are simultaneously expressed in the amphioxus notochord.
The mutants ranged in affinity, from those that only weakly affected polymerization of actin to one that bound actin more strongly than wild-type profilin.
The neoplastic cells were positive for vimentin, Factor-XIIIa, alpha-smooth muscle actin and CD34, but negative for desmin, calponin, high molecular weight caldesmon, smooth muscle myosin heavy chain, collagen type IV, laminin and S-100 protein.
The NH2-terminal 16kD of Abp1p, a 65-kD yeast protein identified by its ability to bind to actin filaments, is 23% identical to yeast cofilin.
The N-terminal talin polypeptide eventually disrupted actin stress fibres whereas the C-terminal polypeptide was without effect.
The nucleotide sequences of nucleocapsid (N), phosphoprotein (P), matrix (M), fusion (F), and large protein (L) genes were partly determined for 19 wild strains of measles virus (MV) isolated over the past 10 years in Japan (nucleotide position N: 1301-1700, P: 1751-2190, M: 3571-4057, F: 6621-7210, L: 10381-11133) and also for a MV strain obtained from a patient with subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) who had natural measles in 1980.
The observed in vivo expression patterns of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin suggest that these proteins are directly linked with the developmental regulation of cell junctions, as cardiac cells become stably committed and phenotypically differentiated to eventually form a mature myocardium.
The ordered assembly of the talin homologue together with actin and a series of other proteins is considered to play a key role in chemotactic orientation.
The p120cas gene encodes a protein tyrosine kinase substrate that associates with the cell-cell adhesion protein complex containing E-cadherin and its cytoplasmic cofactors alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin.
p27 binds to and inhibits complexes formed by cyclin E-cdk2, cyclin A-cdk2, and cyclin D-cdk4.
The phosphoprotein was identified as cofilin, an actin-binding protein, and the activation-induced changes in its intracellular distribution have been described elsewhere (Suzuki et al., 1995, J Biol Chem 270:19551-19556).
The polycystic kidney disease 1 gene product mediates protein kinase C alpha-dependent and c-Jun N-terminal kinase-dependent activation of the transcription factor AP-1.
The polypeptide folds and the actin-binding surfaces of the amoeba profilins are very similar to those of bovine and human profilins.
The position of the actin-binding site at the C terminal suggests that talin may work as a crosslinker between myosin and actin.
The posttranslational metabolism of myosin heavy chain (MHC) and actin was regulated in parallel with the total contractile protein pool.
The potentiating effect of insulin appears to involve increases in the expression of cyclin E and decreases in the expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(Kip1).
The predicted sequence of AtFim1 shares ca. 40% identity with nonplant fimbrins and contains two tandem repeats, each possessing a 27 amino acid region identified as a putative actin-binding domain in fimbrins and in a larger family of actin cross-linking proteins.
The presence, in varying quantities, of myosin heavy chain and actin isoforms of smooth muscle type in the different vessels reflected their degree of differentiation.
The presence of filamin in the cleavage furrows also suggests the possibility of an overlapping mechanism in addition to that of a talin mediated mechanism for the attachment of actin filaments to the cell surfaces in the cleavage furrow.
The present study was designed to determine if cholesterol feeding results in alterations in the isoforms of actin and/or myosin heavy chain in gallbladder smooth muscle.
The previous investigation (Abe et al. (1989) J. Biochem. 106, 696-702) suggested that cofilin is deeply involved in the regulation of actin assembly in developing skeletal muscle.
The primary purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between myosin heavy chain (MHC) and actin contents and maximum isometric tetanic force (Po) in mouse extensor digitorum longus (EDL) muscles following eccentric contraction-induced injury.
The Pro1176 to Thr substitution found in talin from Wistar-Furth rats does not destroy the capacity of this region of the protein to bind actin or vinculin.
The procedure allows for the simultaneous quantification of myosin heavy chain, myosin light chain, phosphorylatable myosin light chain and actin from as little as 50 mg of tissue.
The product of UL38 has been shown to be essential for capsid assembly, but no role has previously been assigned to the product of UL18.
The products of the yeast mismatch repair genes MSH2 and MSH3 participate in the inhibition of genetic recombination between homeologous (divergent) DNA sequences.
The prominent 125 A transverse stripping pattern characteristic of the actin cross-bridges in a bundle is also absent in hair borders suggesting fimbrin as the component that gives rise to the transverse stripes.
The proposed LNYV genomic map is 3'-N-4a-4b-M-G-L-5', where N is the nucleocapsid protein gene; 4a and 4b are two genes, one of which codes for the proposed phosphoprotein P and the other for a putative protein of unknown function; M is the proposed matrix protein gene; G is the proposed glycoprotein gene; and L is the proposed transcriptase gene.
The protein profilin binds to both actin and the head groups of poly)phosphoinositide)s and may regulate both actin assembly and the phosphoinositide signaling pathway.
The protein has the two conserved domains identified as actin and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2) binding sites found in members of the cofilin family.
The proteins encoded by MRS5 and MRS11, which display 35%, sequence identity are both located in the mitochondrial intermembrane space.
The proximity of the semi-conserved actin-binding site and the binding pocket characteristic of plant profilins suggests that epitopes encompassing both features are responsible for the cross-reactivity of antibodies between human and plant profilins thought to be responsible for type I allergies.
The proximity of these sites to the actin binding site provides an explanation for the competition between actin and lipids for binding profilin.
The qualitative changes involve differential expression of multigene families of contractile proteins, especially myosin heavy chain (MHC) and actin.
The quantity of the complex is reduced by treatment of Caco-2 cells with the alkylating agent N-ethylmaleimide which also has an inhibitory effect on the ability of Munc-18-2 to associate with syntaxin 3 in vitro.
The radioresistant N10 and parental KB cell lines were examined for the expression of human DNA repair genes which were related to the repair of radiation-induced DNA damage by northern blot analysis using five kinds of DNA probes (XRCC1, XRCC3, XRCC5, RAD51, RAD52).
The ratios actin mRNA:18S RNA and fast myosin heavy chain mRNA:18S RNA were unaffected by clenbuterol.
There are only 14 non-conservative substitutions in the two myosin heavy chains, three of which are located in the secondary actin-binding loop and flanking regions and others correspond to residues so far not assigned a functional role, including two residues in the proximal S2 domain.
There are three histone H3 genes, two of which are identical; four histone H2a genes, two of which are identical, one histone H4 gene; and two histone H2b genes.
The recombinant material is similar to authentic profilin from Acanthamoeba-based on fluorescence monitored urea denaturation, circular dichroism, actin-nucleotide exchange rate and the Kd for rabbit skeletal actin.
The recombinant material is similar to authentic human platelet profilin based on the measured Kd for rabbit skeletal muscle actin.
The reduction in actin and myosin heavy chain synthesis presumably plays a role in the rapid dissolution of the muscles.
The relatively conservative sequence of profilins from yeast, Physarum, Acanthamoeba, echinoid eggs and mammalian cells was found in the N-terminal region, which was suggested to be a common actin-binding region.
The resulting beta-catenin product is unable to bind alpha-catenin that is responsible for actin filament binding and organization.
The resulting profilin II-peptide complex overcomes the combined capacity of thymosin beta4 and profilin II to inhibit actin nucleation and restores the extent of filament formation.
The results clearly showed that the mutated cofilin possessing KTLKK instead of KKRKK did not translocate into the nuclei in response to heat shock whereas a recombinant cofilin with the unaltered sequence of KKRKK responded to heat shock and formed intranuclear rods together with actin.
The results indicate increased fractional synthesis and degradation of myosin heavy chain and light chains, but not actin, in the left compared to the right ventricular free wall.
The results indicate that (a) plakoglobin and beta-catenin differ in their nuclear translocation and complexing with LEF-1 and vinculin; (b) LEF-1-dependent transactivation is preferentially driven by beta-catenin; and (c) the cytoplasmic partners of beta-catenin, cadherin and alpha-catenin, can sequester it to the cytoplasm and inhibit its transcriptional activity.
The results indicate that S. cerevisiae has two pathways of MSH2-dependent mismatch repair: one that recognized single-base mispairs and requires MSH2 and MSH6, and a second that recognizes insertion/deletion mispairs and requires a combination of either MSH2 and MSH6 or MSH2 and MSH3.
The results provide two independent lines of evidence about the binding sites for actin and poly-L-proline on the profilin molecule.
The results suggest some cooperativity with respect to cofilin binding to filamentous actin which may be pH dependent.
The results suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of beta-catenin is achieved by EGFR upon tryptic digestion of cells and concurrent with but independent of dissociation of alpha-catenin from E-cadherin.
There was a trend towards an association between advanced tumour stage and loss of membranous expression of alpha-catenin or beta-catenin, although these associations were not statistically significant.
The role of profilin in actin polymerization and nucleotide exchange.
The role of profilin in the regulation of actin assembly has been reexamined.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD51 and RAD54 genes are both required for the occurrence of homologous recombination and for the repair of double-stranded DNA breaks.
The Saccharomyces cerevisiae DDC1 gene belongs to the RAD17, MEC3 and RAD24 epistasis group which, together with RAD9, is proposed to act at the beginning of the DNA damage checkpoint pathway.
The same steady state concentrations of polymerized and nonpolymerized actin are reached whether profilin is added before initiation of polymerization or after polymerization is complete.
The Schizosaccharomyces pombe rhp51+, rad22+ and rhp54+ genes are homologous to RAD51, RAD52 and RAD54 respectively, which are indispensable in the recombinational repair of double-strand breaks (DSBs) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
These histone H3 and H2a genes encode approximately 40% of the total H3 and H2a mRNA, whereas the histone H4 and histone H2b genes encode < 10% of the total H4 and H2b mRNA.
These cells have both alpha-catenin and beta-catenin, display unusual expression of N-cadherin, and have the typical fibroblastic phenotype of transformed cells.
These data indicated a negative co-operativity between the profilin and DNase I binding sites on actin.
These data indicate that the actin-binding domains in plant and animal profilins are functionally highly conserved, although the overall sequence similarity is less than 25%.
These data strongly suggest that the head, neck, and tail domains of all myosin heavy chains, and light chains at least of class II myosins, have coevolved and are likely to be functionally interdependent, consistent with biochemical evidence showing that regulated actin-dependent MgATPase activity of Dictyostelium myosin II requires isoform specific interactions between the heavy chain head and tail and light chains.
These data suggest that nuclear profilin can mediate a stimulus-response action on the actin cytoskeleton which is somehow linked to a phosphoinositide-signaling cascade.
These differences in contractile protein profiles between single and cultured cells were collaborated with the observation of cells using immunofluorescence microscope with responsible antibodies to isoforms of myosin heavy chain, actin and tropomyosin.
These dissociation constants are the first to be determined from direct physical measurement; they are in agreement with values inferred from earlier studies on the effect of profilin on the assembly of actin that had been fluorescently labeled or otherwise modified at Cys 374.
These findings provide the first evidence that profilin is a key molecule linking a signaling network to rapid actin polymerization in microspike formation.
These findings reveal striking differences between S. cerevisiae and vertebrates in the functions of RAD51 and RAD52.
These findings suggest a role of cofilin in stimulus-dependent actin remodeling in motile neutrophils.
These findings suggest that this novel RhoGAP is involved in the Rho signalling pathway, probably downstream of Rho activation, and mediates the stimulation of PLC-delta, which leads to actin-related cytoskeletal changes through the hydrolysis of PIP2, which binds to actin binding proteins such as gelsolin and profilin.
These genes were designated UL5, UL8, UL9, UL42, and UL52 and were predicted to encode proteins with molecular weights of, respectively, 99,000, 80,000, 94,000, 51,000, and 114,000.
These increases were specific; DNA, total protein, lactic dehydrogenase, profilin, and actin depolymerizing factor levels were unchanged in the overexpressing cells.
These observations demonstrate that cardiac development in man, in contrast to rodent heart, is characterized by an up-regulation of the skeletal actin gene, the expression of which does not change in hypertrophied and failing hearts, and suggest that the actin and myosin heavy chain families are independently regulated in human heart.
These phenotypes are similar to those of the mutant of PFY1, which encodes profilin, an actin-binding protein.
These proteins also compose the essential heterotrimeric splicing factor SF3a, and products of yeast pre-mRNA processing genes PRP9, PRP11, and PRP21 are their likely yeast counterparts.
These proteins each have a verprolin-homology (V) domain, cofilin-homology (C) domain and an acidic (A) region at the C-terminus, through which they activate the Arp2/3 complex, leading to rapid actin polymerization.
The sequence of the inhibitory region is similar to that of a beta-hairpin region of the actin-binding protein profilin.
The sequences of the predicted HMP-1, HMP-2, and HMR-1 proteins are related to the cell adhesion proteins alpha-catenin, beta-catenin/Armadillo, and classical cadherin, respectively.
These regions also interact with the physiologically relevant ligands of profilin, actin and proline-rich peptides.
These results demonstrate that cofilin plays a crucial role in vivo in rapid remodeling of the cortical actin meshwork into bundles.
These results emphasize the highly conserved biological function of profilins with low sequence homology, and correlate specifically their actin-binding capacity with cell motility and proliferation.
These results indicate that (i) cotranslational assembly of myosin heavy chains is developmentally regulated, (ii) structures containing actin and not microtubules may mediate initial association of the heavy chains with the cytoskeleton, and (iii) the site of translation dictates where a significant fraction of the heavy chains will be inserted into the cytoskeleton.
These results indicate that phosphorylation of LIM-kinase by ROCK and consequently increased phosphorylation of cofilin by LIM-kinase contribute to Rho-induced reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton.
These results indicate that the assembly of cytoskeletal and sarcomeric actins is regulated differently by profilin in the developing skeletal muscle, and that the former may not be involved in myofibril assembly.
These results place important restrictions on the interpretation of experiments in which fluorescently labeled actin is used as a probe of living cytoplasm or cytoplasmic extracts that include profilin.
These results show that cofilin/ADF is an important regulator of actin-based cell motility during Drosophila development.
These results show that the C-terminal actin-binding site is distinct from the region recognized by the anti-functional antibody TD77, raising the possibility that it binds to a novel functionally important ligand-binding site in the talin molecule.
These results suggest that activation of PKC precedes the activation of PI and PIP kinases and that under certain circumstances activation of the kinases and the increased synthesis of PIP and PIP2 may be involved in the polymerization of actin in RBL cells, possibly through the interaction of the polyphosphoinositides with actin-binding proteins such as gelsolin and profilin.
These results suggest that MSH2 and MSH3 can function differentially to control homeologous exchanges.
These results suggest that cofilin may be involved in dynamic reorganization of membranous actin cytoskeletons.
These results suggest that cofilin provides an as yet missing link between functionally crucial T cell surface receptors and rearrangements of the actin cytoskeleton.
These results suggest that profilin may be involved in the pathogenesis of glomerulonephritis by reorganizing actin cytoskeleton.
These results suggest that RAD52 may modulate the catalytic activities of RAD51 protein such as homologous pairing and strand exchange through a direct physical interaction.
These results suggest that LIMK2 functions downstream of the Rho-ROCK signalling pathway and plays a role in reorganization of actin filaments and membrane structures, by phosphorylating cofilin/ADF proteins.
These results suggest that muscle-specific processing of tropomyosin transcripts can continue to occur in the absence of myogenin expression unlike the expression of muscle actin and myosin heavy chain mRNAs.
These results suggest that the dysfunction of E-cadherin in these cell lines is due primarily to its failure to interact with alpha-catenin, and that this defect results from the mutation in beta-catenin.
These results suggest that the heptapeptide sequence is specific for the interaction with actin and, therefore, may constitute part of the actin-binding domain of cofilin.
These results suggest that the subcellular distribution of cofilin as well as its interaction with actin in vivo is regulated by its phosphorylation and dephosphorylation.
These results suggest that TNF-alpha can cause apoptosis in pancreatic beta cells through TNFR1-linked apoptotic factors, TRADD, FADD, and FLICE, and TNF-induced ceramide production may be involved in the pathways.
These results support a model in which EGF stimulation recruits cofilin to the leading edge where its severing activity is activated, leading to the generation of short actin filaments with free barbed ends that participate in the nucleation of actin polymerization.
The serine phosphatases PP1 and PP2A associate with and activate the actin-binding protein cofilin in human T lymphocytes.
These separately encoded a complete HPIV3 genome (negative-sense), the HPIV3 nucleocapsid protein N, the phosphoprotein P, and the polymerase protein L.
These studies suggest that profilin and gelsolin may control the generation of 3-OH phosphorylated phosphoinositides, which in turn may regulate the actin polymerization.
These two proteins were identified as the phosphorylated and non-phosphorylated forms of the pH-sensitive actin-depolymerizing protein, cofilin, by sequencing of peptide fragments and immunoblotting with a monoclonal antibody specific for cofilin.
These were identified as myosin light chain 1, tropomyosin, actin, heat shock protein (HSP)-60, an unidentified protein and myosin heavy chain, respectively.
The sites on the myosin heavy chain that interact with actin and are responsible for force generation are ill-defined: crosslinking and experiments with isolated domains of the myosin head implicate regions in both the 50K and 20K (molecular weights in thousands) domains of the myosin head (subfragment 1, S1) in this process.
The sizes and characteristics of each of the proteins determined from various radiolabelling experiments allowed preliminary identification of the proteins as the large (L; 190 kDa), haemagglutinin neuraminidase (HN; 74 kDa), nucleocapsid (N; 66 kDa), fusion (F0; 63 kDa), phosphoprotein (P; 49 kDa), matrix (M; 43 kDa) and non-structural (V; 35 kDa) proteins.
The Src homology domain 3 (SH3) of a yeast type I myosin, Myo5p, binds to verprolin and is required for targeting to sites of actin polarization.
The structural homology between cofilin and gelsolin segment-1 binding to actin was confirmed experimentally by two types of competitive binding assays.
The structure of an actin-crosslinking domain from human fimbrin.
The structure of Ykt6pN differed entirely from that of syntaxin and resembled the overall fold of the actin regulatory protein, profilin.
The tandem repeat domain in the Listeria monocytogenes ActA protein controls the rate of actin-based motility, the percentage of moving bacteria, and the localization of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein and profilin.
The Tetrahymena fimbrin has two actin-binding domains, but lacks the EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding motif, suggesting that Tetrahymena fimbrin probably cross-links actin filaments in a Ca(2+)- insensitive manner during cytokinesis.
The titration of pyrene-labeled rabbit skeletal actin with human profilin yielded a Kd of 2.8 microM, similar to the Kd of 2.0 microM for the interaction between yeast profilin and pyrene-labeled yeast actin.
The truncated cofilin molecules produced in E. coli were purified and examined for their actin-binding and PIP2-binding ability.
The tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 (TNFR1) and the Fas receptor recruit complexes formed by the interactions between RIP kinase, TRADD, FADD and RAIDD - adaptor proteins that contain death domains - which in turn recruit other proteins to initiate signaling [1][2][3][4][5].
The two cardiac myosin heavy chain isoforms, alpha and beta, differ functionally, alpha Myosin exhibits higher actin-activated ATPase than does beta myosin, and hearts expressing alpha myosin exhibit increased contractility relative to hearts expressing beta myosin.
The two proteins were found to differ in their interaction with actin, like destrin and cofilin isolated from porcine brain.
The undifferentiated cells (a) were unable to spread on gelatin or laminin and grew as rounded colonies, although they were able to spread on fibronectin (b) showed reduced adhesion to laminin, but not fibronectin (c) expressed much reduced levels of beta1 integrin, although levels of alpha5 and alphaV were wild-type (d) were less polarized with increased membrane protrusions compared with a vinculin (-/-) ES cell mutant (e) were unable to assemble vinculin or paxillin-containing focal adhesions or actin stress fibers on fibronectin, whereas vinculin (-/-) ES cells were able to assemble talin-containing focal adhesions.
The vaccinia virus E3L gene product, pE3, is a dsRNA binding protein that prevents activation of the interferon-induced, dsRNA-activated protein kinase, PKR.
The very much lower affinity of profilin for modified actin explains the anomalous critical concentrations curves obtained for 5-10% pyrenyl-labeled actin in the presence of profilin and the apparently weak inhibition by profilin of the rate of filament elongation when polymerization is quantified by the increase in fluorescence of pyrenyl-labeled actin.
The viscoelasticity of entangled actin networks: the influence of defects and modulation by talin and vinculin.
The yeast two-hybrid system was used to identify domains involved in specific in vivo interactions between the Rinderpest virus (RPV) phosphoprotein (P) and nucleocapsid protein (N).
They exhibited strong synergistic increases in CAN1 duplication mutations, intrachromosomal and interchromosomal recombination, and required the wild-type double-strand break repair genes RAD50, RAD51, and RAD52 for viability.
They had altered adhesive properties as measured by their ability to bind to a fibronectin-coated glass surface, suggesting that the expression of a rac-1 GAP alters the assembly of integrin receptors, actin and cytoskeletal proteins such as vinculin and talin.
This activity is independent of FADD-DN's ability to bind to three known interacting proteins, Fas, TRADD or RIP suggesting that it is distinct from FADD's functions at activated death receptors.
This approach is based on the assumption that an actin mutation that specifically impairs the interaction with an actin-binding protein will cause a phenotype similar to a null mutation in the gene that encodes the actin-binding protein.
21 actin mutations were analyzed in budding yeast, and specific regions of actin subdomain 1 were implicated in the interaction with fimbrin, an actin filament-bundling protein.
This arrest can be suppressed by mutations in RAD51, RAD52, and RAD57, suggesting that the cell cycle defect in sgs1 srs2 mutants results from inappropriate homologous recombination.
This cadherin-catenin complex plays an indispensable role in construction of ordered multicellular structures such as polarized epithelium.
beta-catenin and plakoglobin possibly play more regulatory roles, as it was shown that their tyrosine phosphorylation correlated with modified cadherin activities.
This effect is specific to profilin and gelsolin because other cytoskeletal proteins such as tau or actin do not affect PI 3-kinase activity.
This filament growth is driven by a large storage pool of actin bound to the sequestering protein, profilin.
This implies that Munc18-2 function in apical membrane trafficking involves aspects independent of the syntaxin 3 interaction.
This is consistent with cofilin activation being required for actin reorganization during exocytosis.
This is the first report describing the coexistence of profilin with actin filaments in the division furrow, implying the possible involvement of profilin in assembly and disassembly of contractile ring microfilaments in the process of cytokinesis.
This model includes two different Kd's--one for profilin bound to actin monomers and one for profilin bound to an actin molecule at the barbed end of a filament.
This mutant profilin I suppresses actin polymerization in microspike formation induced by N-WASP, the essential factor in microspike formation.
This novel mutation was predicted to disrupt the binding of beta-catenin to alpha-catenin and may be related to the diffuse type morphology.
This paper describes the structural and biochemical characterization of talin, a protein localized to various cellular sites where bundles of actin filaments attach to the plasma membrane.
This process involves other actin-binding proteins, such as cofilin and coronin.
This result was supported by a high protein expression of the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p16 in 44% of the tumours with high cyclin E and low D1 expression, and all immunohistochemical pRB defect tumours showed a high p16 protein level.
This review describes three structures of actin complexed with different monomer-binding proteins, namely with DNase I, gelsolin segment 1, and profilin.
This shows that structural changes in the poly(L-proline)-binding region of profilin can affect the distantly located actin-binding site.
This study details the expression patterns of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and gamma-catenin, during definition of the cardiac cell population as distinct compartments in the anterior regions of the chick embryo between stages 5 and 9.
This suggests that dephosphorylation of cofilin and destrin/ADF by TSH could be implicated in the disruption of actin-containing stress fibers and in the reorganization of microfilaments induced by this hormone.
This technique was employed to quantify changes caused by the lack of talin, a protein that couples the actin network to the plasma membrane, or by the lack of cortexillin I or II, two isoforms of the actin-bundling protein cortexillin.
Those observations were extended to include a spatiotemporal immunohistochemical analyses of beta-catenin and alpha-catenin, as well as a more detailed study of N-cadherin, during segmentation, compaction, and compartmentalization of the somite.
Three actin-associated proteins, actin-binding protein, gelsolin, and profilin, influence gelation, solation, and polymerization, respectively, of actin in vitro.
beta-catenin or plakoglobin is associated directly with the cadherin; alpha-catenin binds to beta-catenin/plakoglobin and serves to link the cadherin/catenin complex to the actin cytoskeleton.
Three components of Drosophila adherens junctions, analogous to those in vertebrates, have been identified: Armadillo (homolog of beta-catenin), Drosophila E-cadherin (DE-cadherin), and alpha-catenin.
Three-dimensional fluorescence microscopy of the fluorescent analog of actin with a high affinity for profilin revealed that it incorporated into cortical cytoplasmic fibers and was also distributed diffusely in the non-cortical cytoplasm consistent with a bias of actin assembly near the surface of the cell.
Three methods, fluorescence anisotropy of rhodamine-labeled profilin, intrinsic fluorescence and nucleotide exchange, give the same affinity, Kd = 0.1 microM, for Acanthamoeba profilins binding amoeba actin monomers with bound Mg-ATP.
Thrombin, within seconds, caused quantitative conversion of platelet profilin and gelsolin to high-affinity complexes with actin, but these complexes were not present 5 min after stimulation.
Thus, actin was found in association with fimbrin in the mechanoreceptive region of hair cells, whereas supporting cells, although rich in actin, did not reveal fimbrin.
Thus, alpha-syntrophin has an important role in synapse formation and in the organization of utrophin, acetylcholine receptor, and acetylcholinesterase at the neuromuscular synapse.
Thus, APC forms distinct heteromeric complexes containing combinations of alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and plakoglobin which are independent from the cadherin-catenin complexes.
Thus, beta-catenin, E-cadherin, and alpha-catenin have similar prognostic values.
Thus, both DR5 and DR4 use FADD, TRADD, and RIP in their signal transduction pathways, and FADD is the common mediator of apoptosis by all known death domain-containing receptors.
Thus, profilin and actin expression are not co-regulated in all cells.
Thus, it is likely that the both cofilin isoforms are involved in the regulation of actin assembly during myofibrillogenesis.
Thus, it is most likely that the association between E-cadherin and alpha-catenin is mediated by beta-catenin, and that this process is blocked by NH2-terminal deletion in beta-catenin.
Thus, like verprolin, WIP functions in yeast to link the polarity development pathway and the actin cytoskeleton to generate cytoskeletal asymmetry.
Thus, mHip1R contains an NH(2)-terminal domain homologous to that implicated in Sla2p's endocytic function, three predicted coiled-coils, a leucine zipper, and a talin-like actin-binding domain at the COOH terminus.
Thus, poly-L-proline binding, actin binding, and actin nucleotide exchange are each independent requirements for profilin function in fission yeast.
Thus, the actin-binding dodecapeptide sequence of cofilin may constitute a multifunctional domain in cofilin.
TNF also inhibited muscle differentiation as measured by several parameters, including cell fusion and the expression of other muscle-specific genes, such as alpha-skeletal actin and myosin heavy chain.
TNF receptor death domain-associated proteins TRADD and FADD signal activation of acid sphingomyelinase.
To approach the problem, we have constructed a carp genomic library and isolated 28 nonoverlapping clones containing sequences of different myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoforms along with a clone containing carp actin sequences.
To characterize the AAV functions mediating this effect, cloned AAV type 2 wild-type or mutant genomes were transfected into simian virus 40 (SV40)-transformed hamster cells together with the six HSV replication genes (encoding UL5, UL8, major DNA-binding protein, DNA polymerase, UL42, and UL52) which together are necessary and sufficient for the induction of SV40 DNA amplification (R. Heilbronn and H. zur Hausen, J. Virol. 63:3683-3692, 1989).
To characterize the phenotypic alteration in mesangial cells in human glomerulonephritis, we investigated the expression of nonmuscle-type myosin heavy chain, SMemb, and alpha-smooth muscle actin (alpha-SM actin) in IgA nephropathy.
To check its applicability, well characterized, commercially available antibodies (against E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin) were used on sections of human small intestine.
To clarify the relation between alteration of expression of cell adhesion molecules and progression of extrahepatic bile duct carcinomas 55 cases were immunohistochemically examined for E-cadherin, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, and CD44, with additional reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and Southern blotting hybridization (RT-PCR/SBH) assays.
To detect the expression of apoptosis-related molecules, ribonuclease protection assay was used with specific antisense RNA probes for Fas, Fas ligand, TNFR-1, TRAIL, FADD, TRADD, RIP, FAF, FAP, and caspase-8.
To determine the effect of insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) on cardiac contractile protein synthesis in vivo, we measured L-[ring-2, 6-3H]phenylalanine incorporation into myosin heavy chain and actin during intravenous infusions (4 h) of either saline or IGF-I (1 microgram. kg-1. min-1) in awake rats.
To determine the phenotypes of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) in such lesions, the authors conducted an immunohistochemical analysis of lung tissues from two patients with PPH, using two antimuscle actin antibodies, HHF35 and CGA7, and two anti-SMC myosin heavy chain markers, anti-SM1 and anti-SM2 antibodies and related antibodies.
To determine the relationship between cell cycle regulation and differentiation, the spatiotemporal expression of cyclin A, cyclin B1, cyclin D1, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors (CKIs) p27 and p57, and markers of differentiating podocytes in developing human kidneys was investigated by immunohistochemistry.
To determine the relative importance of protein degradation in the development of starvation-induced cardiac atrophy, in vivo fractional synthetic rates of total cardiac protein, myosin heavy chain, actin, light chain 1, and light chain 2 were measured in fed and fasted rabbits by continuous infusion of [3H] leucine.
To determine whether alpha 1-adrenergic stimulation produced similar effects on the turnover of myofibrillar proteins, rates of synthesis and degradation were estimated for a myofibrillar-enriched protein fraction and for myosin heavy chain and actin.
Together these results indicate that TGFbeta regulates clusterin gene expression through an AP-1 site and its cognate transcription factor AP-1, and requires the involvement of protein kinase C.
To improve our ability to study these proteins, we have expressed UL5, UL8, UL9, and UL52 in insect cells by using the baculovirus expression system.
To investigate the possibility that TD77 disrupts actin stress fibers by binding directly to the C-terminal actin binding site, additional talin fusion proteins were generated and analyzed for TD77 and actin binding.
To investigate the role of cofilin in EGF-stimulated actin polymerization and lamellipod extension in MTLn3 cells, we examined in detail the temporal and spatial distribution of cofilin relative to free barbed ends and characterized the actin dynamics by measuring the changes in the number of actin filaments.
To our knowledge, AF-6 is the only integral component in cell-cell junctions discovered thus far that interacts with profilin and thus could modulate actin modeling proximal to adhesion complexes.
To study profilin function, we extensively mutagenized the Saccharomyces cerevisiae profilin gene (PFY1) and examined the consequences of specific point mutations on growth and actin organization.
Total actin and myosin heavy chain mRNAs, and polyadenylated RNA, were determined using slot-blot assays.
Total protein, myosin heavy chain (MHC), and actin appeared unchanged with SVT cardiomyopathy at the LV or myocyte level.
To test for regional differences in the rates of synthesis and degradation of contractile proteins during normal physiological growth of the heart in vivo, fractional rates of protein accumulation and synthesis were assessed for total protein, myosin heavy chain, myosin light chain, phosphorylatable myosin light chain, and actin in the right and left ventricular free walls of growing, New Zealand White rabbits.
To test these models in living cells using imaging techniques, we prepared a new fluorescent analog of actin that bound profilin, a protein that interacts with phosphoinositides and actin-monomers in a mutually exclusive manner, with an order of magnitude greater affinity (Kd = 3.6 microM) than cys-374-labeled actin (Kd > 30 microM), yet retained the ability to inhibit DNase I.
Transcriptional expression of TNFR1(p55), as well as that of FLICE, Fas, FADD, DR3, FAF, TRADD, and RIP was similar in these cell lines, indicating that the susceptibility to TNFalpha-induced apoptosis may not be determined by the constitutive expression level of these factors.
Transcriptional regulation in the galactose regulon of yeast is determined by an interplay between a positive regulatory protein, GAL4, and a negative regulatory protein, GAL80.
Transfection of alpha-catenin-deficient colon carcinoma cells recruited E-cadherin and beta-catenin to cell-cell contacts and functional cadherin-mediated cell-cell adhesion was restored in this way.
Transfection of plasmids encoding the BRSV minigenome, nucleocapsid protein (N), phosphoprotein (P) and L protein, each under the control of T7 promoter, into cells infected with a vaccinia virus recombinant expressing the T7 RNA polymerase gave rise to CAT activity and progeny with the minigenome.
Treatment of cells with gamma linolenic acid (GLA) increased alpha catenin expression in most cell lines, while beta catenin levels were reduced, and gamma catenin expression was unchanged.
Treatment with HNE resulted in activation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases ERK1 and ERK2, induction of c-fos and c-jun protein expression, and an increase in transcription factor AP-1 DNA binding activity.
Two actin binding proteins, actin depolymerizing factor and cofilin, are associated with Hirano bodies.
Two cDNAs, isolated from a Xenopus laevis embryonic library, encode proteins of 168 amino acids, both of which are 77% identical to chick cofilin and 66% identical to chick actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF), two structurally and functionally related proteins.
Two-hybrid analysis of the interaction between the UL52 and UL8 subunits of the herpes simplex virus type 1 helicase-primase.
Two isoforms of nonmuscle myosin heavy chain IIB (MHC-IIB) are generated by alternative splicing; MHC-IIB(B2) differs from MHC-IIB(DeltaB2) by the insertion of B2 exon cassette near the actin binding region.
Tyrosine phosphorylation of beta-catenin was concomitantly induced with association of beta-catenin with EGF receptor (EGFR) when quiescent cells at confluence were dissociated into single cells by tryptic digestion, being accompanied by dissociation of alpha-catenin from E-cadherin.
Under all conditions, platelets retained 40-50% of their total actin and greater than 70% of their actin-binding protein (ABP) but lost greater than 80% of talin and myosin to the supernatant.
Unexpectedly, treatment with the actin-depolymerizing drug latrunculin-A disrupted the medial region targeting pattern, and cells deficient in the actin-binding proteins tropomyosin and profilin also did not exhibit medial GFP-Cdc42p staining.
Unlike fimbrin, L-plastin's actin-bundling action was strictly calcium-dependent: the bundles were formed at pCa 7, but not at pCa 6.
Unmasking of this site serves as a molecular switch that initiates assembly of an actin-based motility complex containing VASP and profilin.
Up to now three allergens have been identified as responsible for cross-reactivity in these associations: profilin, a 14 kd protein that regulates actin; Bet v 1, the 18 kd birch pollen allergen; and a 60-69 kd allergen.
Using a complementary sequence or antipeptide to selectively neutralize the stretch of residues 633-642 of skeletal myosin heavy chain, we recently demonstrated that this segment is an actin binding site operating in the absence as in the presence of nucleotide and that this stretch 633-642 is not part of the nucleotide binding site [Chaussepied & Morales (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85, 7471-7475].
Using an in vitro assay system involving bacterially expressed proteins, we localized a region in alpha-catenin required for molecular interaction with beta-catenin and plakoglobin.
Using ITP (a substrate for myosin II ATPase) and/or ATP gamma S (a substrate for myosin II heavy-chain kinase [MHCK]), we demonstrated that phosphorylation of myosin heavy chains occurred at the foci within the actin network, a result that suggests that MHCK was localized at the foci.
Using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE), we have developed a simple method to isolate myosin heavy chain (MHC) and actin from small (60-80 mg) human skeletal muscle samples for the determination of their fractional synthesis rates.
Using the known three-dimensional structure of the homologous actin-binding domain of fimbrin, these results have enabled us to determine the likely orientation of the utrophin actin-binding domain with respect to the actin filament.
Using the 'nuclear displacement assay' as a measure of the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton in living stamen hair cells, we demonstrated that AtFim1 protects actin filaments in these cells from Z. mays profilin (ZmPRO5)-induced depolymerization, in a dose-dependent manner.
Using these methods, we confirm previous reports that intact talin induces cross-linking as well as filament shortening on actin networks.
Using the two-hybrid system, we show that verprolin binds actin.
Various immunological assays suggest that four of these proteins (UL5, UL8, UL9, and UL52) are made in infected cells in very low abundance relative to the other three.
Vascular endothelial cadherin (VE-cadherin) clusters were co-localized with beta-catenin, an important signal transduction ligand, and with alpha-catenin, which is thought to link the complex to the peri-junctional actin.
VASP, in turn, provides the ABM-2 sequences [XPPPPP, X = G, P, L, S, A] for binding profilin, an actin-regulatory protein that stimulates actin filament assembly.
Villin and fimbrin are two actin-binding proteins that bundle actin filaments in the intestine and kidney brush border epithelium.
Vimentin and actin were also up-regulated, whereas an isoform of myosin heavy chain was down-regulated.
WASp contains a binding motif for the Rho GTPase CDC42Hs as well as verprolin/cofilin-like actin-regulatory domains, but no specific actin structure regulated by CDC42Hs-WASp has been identified.
We also analysed NHEJ in other DNA damage response mutants and showed that the checkpoint mutant rad3-d and two recombination mutants defective in rhp51 and rhp54 (homologues of S.cerevisiae RAD51 and RAD54, respectively) are not affected.
We attribute the detection of actin and profilin to the applied cryomethods which yield a much better preservation of ultrastructure and antigenicity of delicate cytoskeletal constituents than conventional fixation techniques.
We attribute these effects to potential sequestration of actin monomers by profilin, when present in excess.
We believe that this complex may mediate the cortical functions of profilin at actin patches in S. pombe.
We conclude that Aip1p is a cofilin-associated protein that enhances the filament disassembly activity of cofilin and restricts cofilin localization to cortical actin patches.
We conclude that germ-line involvement of MSH6 and MSH3 is rare and that other genes are likely to account for a majority of MSH2-, MLH1-mutation negative families with nonpolypotic colon cancer.
We constructed recombinant viruses based on the herpes simplex virus type 1 mutant tsK which individually were able to express the products of four viral DNA replication genes (UL5, UL8, UL9 and UL52) in the absence of any of the other proteins required for viral DNA synthesis.
We describe the localization of cadherin-11 and N-cadherin along the cell margins of mouse osteoblast-like cells, the colocalization of "pancadherin" with alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, p120, and vinculin, and the association of these complexes with the actin microfilaments.
We determined whether short-term weight-lifting exercise increases the synthesis rate of the major contractile proteins, myosin heavy chain (MHC), actin, and mixed muscle proteins in nonfrail elders and younger women and men.
We examined the axonal transport of actin and its monomer binding proteins, actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin, and profilin, in the chicken sciatic nerve following injection of [35S]methionine into the lumbar spinal cord.
We examined the role of the actin monomer sequestering protein, profilin, in the regulation of PMN actin filament assembly during chemoattractant stimulation using a Triton extraction method.
We examined whether levels of alpha-smooth-muscle actin or proliferating cell nuclear antigen correlated with myosin heavy-chain levels in the glomeruli of rats with puromycin aminonucleoside nephrosis.
We expressed in Escherichia coli the vaccinia virus gene for a protein similar to vertebrate profilins, purified the recombinant viral profilin, and characterized its interactions with actin and polyphosphoinositides.
We find that profilin and cofilin regulate actin-filament formation throughout the cell cortex.
We find that profilin contributes in several ways to Cdc42-induced nucleation of actin filaments in high speed supernatant of lysed neutrophils.
We find that heterozygotes for actin (Act88F) or myosin heavy chain (Mhc36B) null alleles have complex myofibrillar defects, whereas Mhc36B-/+; Act88F-/+ double heterozygotes have nearly normal myofibrils.
We found normal levels of alpha-catenin and beta-catenin in BT549 and HS578t cells; however, low levels of plakoglobin were expressed in these cells compared to those found in weakly invasive MCF-7 cells.
We found that the 34- and 45-kDa polypeptides encoded by vaccinia virus ORFs A8R and A23R, respectively, were necessary to reconstitute transcription of a template with an intermediate stage promoter.
We found that the down-regulation of E-cad, alpha-catenin, and beta-catenin expression significantly correlated with tumor high grade, but not with vascular invasion, metastasis, p53 expression, Ki-67 labeling, or c-erbB2 expression, except for beta-catenin, the down-regulation of which was associated with c-erbB2 down-regulation.
We found that the expression of all these genes, including thymidylate synthase (TS), dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR), ribonucleotide reductase (PNR), proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), histone H1, histone H2A + 2B, histone H3, and histone H4, was induced to high levels in young IMR-90 cells but not in old IMR-90 cells.
We have analyzed the expression levels of the genes encoding alpha-catenin, beta-catenin and plakoglobin in correlation to the E-cadherin expression levels in cell lines derived from human cervical carcinomas.
We have biochemically identified the Saccharomyces cerevisiae homologue of the mammalian actin binding protein cofilin.
We have characterized the interaction and nuclear localization of the nucleocapsid (N) protein and phosphoprotein (P) of sonchus yellow net nucleorhabdovirus.
We have characterized this actin with respect to its ability to interact with yeast profilin and tropomyosin, the only yeast actin-binding proteins so far purified and characterized.
We have cloned a Saccharomyces cerevisiae gene (COF1) encoding a low-M(r) actin-binding protein of 143 amino acid (aa) residues (yeast cofilin; Cof); its aa sequence is 35% identical to porcine Cof.
We have developed a new integrated kinetic model to examine how the maintenance of the pool of unpolymerized actin and the flux of actin subunits through filaments are controlled by profilin and free filament barbed ends through their interaction with ATP.
We have established an MSH3-deficient HHUA/chr.2 cell line by introducing human chromosome 2, which carries wild-type MSH6 and MSH2 genes, to HHUA cells.
We have examined the level of cyclin E, a G1 cyclin, and p27kip, a cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, in BALB/c 3T3 cells.
We have found that cofilin, a 21-kDa actin-binding protein, is a component of these rods.
We have previously shown that the synthetic dodecapeptide corresponding to Trp104-Met115 of cofilin is a potent inhibitor of actin polymerization (Yonezawa, N., Nishida, E., Iida, K., Kumagai, H., Yahara, I., and Sakai, H. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 10485-10489).
We have shown that the FH proteins Bni1p and Bnr1p are potential targets of the Rho family small GTP-binding proteins and bind to an actin-binding protein, profilin, at their proline-rich FH1 domains to regulate reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.
We have shown that these proteins are indeed nuclear basic proteins: the 14 kd is the histone H4, the 19 kd is the histone H3, and the 25 kd is the sperm-specific protein SP2.
We investigate allelic losses in microsatellites of the RAD51, RAD52, RAD54, BRCA1 and BRCA2 regions, and their correlations with nine pathologic parameters in 127 breast carcinomas.
We investigated actin filament turnover rates, length, number, barbed end exposure, and binding of cofilin in bovine arterial endothelial cells moving at different speeds depending on their position in a confluent monolayer.
We observed that four replication proteins, UL5, UL8 UL52, and UL9, are necessary for the localization of ICP8 (UL29) to prereplicative sites natural infection conditions.
We previously showed that actin is transported in an unassembled form with its associated proteins actin depolymerizing factor, cofilin, and profilin.
We propose a model in which profilin alters cellular concentrations of actin polymers in response to fluctuations in cytosolic calcium concentration.
We propose that profilin may act by forming, during the critical period of cerebellar development, a reserve pool of monomeric actin that can easily be mobilized in cell regions such as growth cones or synaptic junctions where filamentous actin is highly concentrated.
We report here that LIMK1 and LIMK2 phosphorylate both cofilin and actin-depolymerizing factor (ADF) specifically at Ser-3 and exhibit partially distinct substrate specificity when tested using site-directed cofilin mutants as substrates.
We report here that tropomyosin, which is found in the rootlet but not in the microvillus core, can bind to and saturate the actin of isolated cores, and can cause the dissociation of up to 30% of the villin and fimbrin from the cores but does not affect actin binding by 110-kD calmodulin.
We show here that the phenotype of ts cut2-364 is highly similar to that of cut1 and that the functions of the gene products of cut1+ and cut2+ are closely interrelated.
We show that the HSV-1 UL5, UL8, UL29, UL30, UL42, and UL52 gene products along with the AAV Rep68 protein are sufficient to initiate replication on duplex DNA containing the AAV origins of replication, resulting in products several hundred nucleotides in length.
We speculate that fimbrin may help maintain the parallel growth of actin filaments within the stereocilia.
We speculate that nonfilamentous actin and profilin, both of which form shear-sensitive structures, can be modeled as flocculant materials.
Western analysis of gel-purified USF-nucleosome and GAL4-AH-nucleosome complexes demonstrated the predominant presence of acetylated histone H4 relative to acetylated histone H3.
We studied the roles of cofilin, an actin-binding phosphoprotein, in superoxide production of neutrophil-like HL-60 cells triggered by opsonized zymosan (OZ).
We suggest that the talin in the nodes functions, via a cross-linking activity, in the convergence of actin filaments at the membrane during development of the ribs.
We tested for the presence of alpha-smooth muscle actin, tropomyosin, desmin, smooth muscle myosin (heavy chain) and cytoskeletal proteins vimentin and cytokeratin.
We then compared colorectal cancers with 'mild' RER (n = 15), and those with 'severe' RER without (n = 11) or with (n = 22) detectable mutations in MSH2 or MLH1 to assess the involvement of mononucleotide repeats contained in the coding regions of MSH3, MSH6, BAX, and TGFbeta RII.
We used biochemical fractionation, immunoassays and microscopy of live and fixed Acanthamoeba to determine how much profilin is bound to its known ligands: actin, membrane PIP(2), Arp2/3 complex and polyproline sequences.
We used yeast as a model to test this hypothesis and found that chromosome deletion of any known nuclear mitotic mismatch repair genes, including MLH1, MSH2, MSH3, MSH6, and PMS1, did not rescue mgt1delta O6 MeG DNA repair methyltransferase-deficient cells from killing by MNNG.
When a lyophilized Mf and AO mixture was incubated at 40 degrees C and 65% relative humidity, the conjugation of AO was confirmed at myosin heavy chain, actin, and tropomyosin.
When barbed ends are capped, profilin simply sequesters globular actin.
When liver- or islet-type glucokinase was transiently expressed in COS-7 cells, the expressed glucokinase was also co-localized with actin filaments in the cytoplasm of these transfected cells.
When measured in the absence of profilin, actin assembly curves over a 0.7-4 microM thymosin-beta4 concentration range fit a simple monomer sequestering model (1 microM K(D) for Thymosin-beta4.Actin).
When the actin monomer pool in untransfected myoblasts is increased 70% by treatment with latrunculin A, synthesis of ADF and actin are down-regulated compared with cofilin and 19 other proteins selected at random.
When transfected into L cells expressing E-cadherin, the amino-terminal region of alpha-catenin (from residue 1 to 226) formed complexes with beta-catenin supporting the in vitro binding experiment results.
When ZmPRO4 was microinjected into plant cells, the effect on actin-dependent nuclear position was significantly more rapid than that of another pollen profilin isoform, ZmPRO1.
While alpha-catenin has been demonstrated to be crucial for cadherin function, the role of beta-catenin is not yet fully understood.
While levels of most of these proteins decrease, accumulation of cyclin D1 and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 Cip1/WAF1 is observed.
While parallel actin bundles crossing the cells are virtually absent in cells overexpressing profilin, the submembranous actin network of these cells is denser than in control cells.
While poly(ADP-ribose) effectively competed with DNA for binding of histone H4, it equally competed with DNA for binding of histone H3 and only inefficiently competed with DNA for binding of histone H1.
With profilins, whose sequestering activity was low, the concentration of free actin monomers observed at steady-state of polymerization [Afree], was close to that seen with actin alone ([Acc], critical concentration of polymerization).
Within 1 hour of raising the concentration of calcium ions, integrins, cadherins, alpha-catenin, beta-catenin, plakoglobin, vinculin and alpha-actinin appeared to accumulate at cell-cell borders, whereas the focal contact proteins, paxillin and talin, did not.
Within the sieve-tube exudate, profilin was present in 15-fold molar excess to actin.
With solutions of actin (2 microM) and thymosin-beta4 (2 or 4 microM), the barbed-end assembly rate rose with increasing profilin concentration (0.7-2 microM).
X-ray structures of isoforms of the actin-binding protein profilin that differ in their affinity for phosphatidylinositol phosphates.
YACs containing color vision red pigment gene DNA or 1.5 rDNA tandem repeat units were transformed into hosts bearing lesions at the RAD1, RAD6, RAD51, or RAD52 loci.
Yeast profilin can sequester yeast actin monomers and thereby reduce the ability of yeast actin to polymerize, whereas it has little effect on the degree of polymerization of rabbit skeletal muscle actin.
Yeast profilin was shown to catalyze adenine nucleotide exchange from yeast actin almost 2 orders of magnitude less efficiently than human profilin and rabbit skeletal muscle actin.
